The Project Gutenberg EBook of O. Henry Encore, by William Sydney Porter

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: O. Henry Encore

Author: William Sydney Porter

Editor: Mary Sunlocks Harrell

Release Date: March 29, 2020 [EBook #61701]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK O. HENRY ENCORE ***




Produced by Vince Rice




O. HENRY ENCORE

STORIES AND ILLUSTRATIONS BY O. HENRY * _Usually Under the Name_
The Post Man * _Discovered and Edited by_ Mary Sunlocks Harrell



_New York 1939_

Doubleday, Doran & Company, Inc.

Printed at the _Country Life Press_, Garden City, N.Y., U.S.A.

CL
Copyright, 1939
By Mary Sunlocks Harrell
All Rights Reserved



TABLE OF CONTENTS

Preface

Introduction

Part One: Stories
A Night Errant
In Mezzotint
The Dissipated Jeweler
How Willie Saved Father
The Mirage on the Frio
A Tragedy
Sufficient Provocation
The Bruised Reed
Paderewski's Hair
A Mystery of Many Centuries
A Strange Case
Simmon's Saturday Night
An Unknown Romance
Jack the Giant Killer
The Pint Flask
An Odd Character
A Houston Romance
The Legend of San Jacinto
Binkley's Practical School of Journalism
A New Microbe
Vereton Villa
Whiskey Did It
Nothing New Under the Sun
Led Astray
A Story for Men
How She Got in the Swim
The Barber Talks
Barbershop Adventure

Part Two: Sketches
Did You See the Circus?
Thanksgiving Remarks
When the Train Comes In
Christmas Eve
New Year's Eve and How It Came to Houston
Watchman, What of the Night?
Newspaper Poets
Her Choice

Part Three: Newspaper Poetry
Topical Verse
Cape Jessamines
The Cricket
My Broncho
The Modern Venus
Celestial Sounds
The Snow
"Little Things, but Ain't They Whizzers?"
Last Fall of the Alamo



Preface

During the years 1934 and 1935 I made a close study of O. Henry's
Texas contacts. The newspapers of Texas during the time of O. Henry's
residence in the state furnished one of the sources which I
investigated; and it was during my research in the files of the
_Houston Post_, 1895-1896, that I discovered the stories and
illustrations which make up this book. In reprinting this material, I
have followed the original version meticulously except for the
correction of obvious typographical errors and certain slight
aberrations in punctuation that seemed to demand revision for the sake
of consistency or to comply with modern standards of usage. Even so, I
have allowed many typographical and even grammatical conventions to
remain as they were printed forty years ago.

The companion volume to O. Henry Encore, namely, O. Henry in Texas,
embodies the results of my investigation into the Texas period of O.
Henry's life, and contains a much more complete account of his work on
the _Houston Post_ than I have been able to give in the short
introduction to the present volume.

Permission for reprinting the material here was arranged for me by
former Governor W. P. Hobby of Texas, now President of the Houston
Post, and Mr. A. E. Clarkson, Business Manager of the Post. I am happy
to express my gratitude to them. My thanks are due also to Dr.
Leonidas Warren Payne, Jr., of The University of Texas, Dr. Vernon
Loggins, of Columbia University, and the late Dr. Dorothy Scarborough,
of Columbia University, for helping in the identification of the
material. Mary Sunlocks Harrell



Introduction

O. Henry's real name was William Sidney (Sydney) Porter. He was born
in Greensboro, North Carolina, 1862, of mixed Quaker (Connecticut) and
Southern (Virginia) ancestry. His mother, a woman of remarkable
strength of character and some literary talent, died in 1865, and O.
Henry's rearing was entrusted to his paternal grandmother. His father
was a physician, but apparently a business failure at everything he
attempted. What schooling O. Henry had was received in the little
private school of an aunt, Miss Lina Porter. From early boyhood he
worked in the drug store of an uncle, and long before he was twenty he
was a registered pharmacist.

In 1882 O. Henry left for Texas to seek a dryer climate. It was feared
that he was developing consumption. He settled on the Hall ranch in La
Salle County, almost half way between San Antonio and the Mexican
border. He spent two years on the ranch and in 1884 went to Austin.
During his first three years there, he lived as practically an adopted
son in the home of Mr. Joe Harrell, who was also a native of
Greensboro. He worked at various "jobs"--cigar-store clerk,
pharmacist, etc.

In 1887 O. Henry secured a position in the State Land Office as
assistant compiling draftsman. Here he remained for four years--the
happiest ones, it seems, in his life. The position meant to him
prosperity; and five months after he had begun his work, he was
married to Miss Athol Estes, the daughter of Mrs. G. P. Roach. There
was a romantic elopement, a family reconciliation, and what O. Henry
called "a settling down to a comedy of happiness ever afterwards."
It was shortly after he took up his work in the Land Office that O.
Henry first marketed his writings. The amount received for a "string
of jokes and sketches" accepted by the Detroit Free Press was small,
but it was to increase steadily, even during the most troublous period
of his life. As a boy in Greensboro he was known for his drawings and
cartoons, and while on the ranch in Texas he drew some pictures and
also wrote to his relatives and friends in North Carolina letters
indicative of his later literary style.

A change in the State administration in 1891 meant that O. Henry's
position in the Land Office was lost. He became connected with the
First National Bank of Austin as paying and receiving teller, where he
was to work until December, 1894. Before giving up his position in the
bank, he had undertaken the publication of a humorous, semi-political
weekly, The Rolling Stone, published at Austin and later
simultaneously in Austin and San Antonio. After he left the bank, he
had to depend on The Rolling Stone for all his income, but without
capital he could not make of it a financial success. It existed only a
year, from April 28, 1894, to April 27, 1895. Almost six months passed
before O. Henry left Austin to become a staff contributor to the
_Houston Daily Post_. His first work appeared in the Post on October
19, 1895.

It was shortly after this date that an ominous shadow settled over O.
Henry's head. In February of 1896 the Federal Grand Jury at Austin
brought an indictment against W. S. Porter, charging the embezzlement
of funds while he was acting as paying and receiving teller of the
First National Bank of Austin. Finally, summoned to trial in July,
1896, O. Henry left Houston to answer the charge; but he only got as
far as Hempstead. There it was necessary to change trains; but instead
of taking the train for Austin, he returned to Houston and then went
on to New Orleans. When next heard from, he was in Honduras. In
January, 1897, after six month's absence O. Henry received news of the
serious illness of his wife. He set out to join her immediately and
reached Austin by February 5, 1897. He at once reported to the civil
authorities. His bondsmen had not been assessed, and he was allowed to
go free but with his bond doubled.

His wife died of tuberculosis the following July, and in February,
1898, O. Henry' case came to trial. He plead not guilty, but for some
unknown reason he maintained an utter indifference throughout the
trial. On March 25 he was sentenced to imprisonment in the Federal
Ward of the Ohio State Penitentiary. On account of good behavior,
however, O. Henry's term in prison was shortened to a little over
three years. On July 24, 1901, he again became a free man. His ability
as a pharmacist gave him the opportunity to work in prison at
something comparatively easy. But what is of most interest to us in
regard to his life there is that by the time he got out of confinement
he was pretty well known, under the pseudonym of O. Henry by editors
of a number of America's most popular magazines.

As soon as he was out of prison O. Henry went to join his daughter and
the Roaches, who were then living in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He now
devoted all his energies to writing, and in the spring of 1902 he was
called to New York. The eight years that O. Henry spent in the great
metropolis were marked by an astonishing fecundity in literary
production and an ever increasing fame as the writer of a peculiar
type of short story, now known universally as the "O. Henry short
story."

O. Henry died in New York City on June 5,
1910, and was buried in Asheville, North Carolina. The only other
event of his life which should be recorded here is his marriage in
1907 to Miss Sara Coleman, a sweetheart of his North Carolina days,
and author of Wind of Destiny in which appear many letters written to
her by O. Henry just before their marriage.

    II

Practically the whole body of O. Henry's stories and sketches first
appeared in periodicals. Doubleday, Page & Company (now Doubleday,
Doran and Company) have put into book form almost everything he wrote,
and the volumes in the order of their publication are as follows:
_Cabbages and Kings_, 1904; _The Four Million_, 1906; The Trimmed Lamp
and _Heart of the West_, 1907; _The Voice of the City_ and _The Gentle
Grafter_, 1908; _Roads of Destiny_ and _Options_, 1909; _Strictly
Business_ and _Whirligigs_, 1910; _Sixes and Sevens_, 1911; Rolling
Stones, 1913; _Waifs and Strays_, 1917. In 1923 Harper and Brothers
brought out _Postscripts_ by O. Henry, edited by Florence Stratton.

The title of _Rolling Stones_, invented by Harry Peyton Steger, is
based on the weekly, _The Rolling Stone_, published by O. Henry in
Texas in 1894 and 1895. It contains odds and ends; some stories
written when O. Henry was at his best, "The Fog in Santone," for
example; material used in the original The Rolling Stone; excerpts
from the Postscripts column written for the _Houston Post_; and a few
letters. _Postscripts_ by O. Henry, as the name suggests, contains
material taken from Will Porter's _Houston Post_ column. _The Four
Million_ is based on New York life, and _The Trimmed Lamp_, _The Voice
of the City_, and _Strictly Business_ are simply "more stories of the
four million." _Heart of the West_ is made up exclusively of western
stories. _Cabbages and Kings_, a composite of several individual
stories separately published and now woven together, depicts life as
O. Henry saw it in Honduras, Central America. _The Gentle Grafter_ is
supposedly based upon stories which O. Henry heard his fellow
prisoners relate in the Ohio Penitentiary. The other volumes are made
up of stories varied in character--New York, Texas, and tropical
America.

Just as every other great artist has done, O. Henry has set an
example. He invented a short-story technique of his own, and the most
discriminating critics have studied that technique and pronounced it
good. He owed no more to the "unity of impression idea" of Poe than to
the stringy structure of the medieval Patient Griselda. Almost by
chance, it seems, he hit upon the trick of concentration of attention,
economy of words, rising suspense, and denouement of climax and
surprise; and in that trick lies his art.

There was in O. Henry, however, a power greater than his art. That was
his genius for observation. Art without ideas profits nothing. O.
Henry got his ideas by seeing everything about him, by always keeping
on the qui vive, as he himself said, for "the man around the corner."
Fate dealt him a life of manifold experiences, and from every
experience his store of observations increased. After all, his works
are no more than an artistic record of life as he saw it.

    III

The stories that make up the present volume have for forty years
remained unnoticed in the files of the _Houston Post_. The general
belief that O. Henry was simply a columnist on the Post is probably
the reason for their being overlooked. The idea that his column
appeared regularly has, furthermore, tended to dismiss the question of
what sort of work he really did on the paper. When I examined the
files of the Post, I was surprised to find that the column "Some
Postscripts" was often missing. In February, 1896, it came out only
four times, in April seven, in June three. In spite of this
irregularity Will Porter's salary had gradually been raised from $15
to $25 a week.

Here is a situation which has only one logical explanation. O. Henry
must have done other work in order to draw this steadily increasing
weekly salary. A close examination of the Houston Post files from
October 19, 1895, to June 22, 1896, reveals a mass of material,
heretofore unidentified, as unmistakably the work of Will Porter.

What first attracts the eye is the abundance of unsigned comic
drawings and clever cartoons. The style of these drawings is
unquestionably O. Henry's. We know from various sources that he was
constantly drawing pictures, and we have a positive statement from
Colonel R. M. Johnston, under whom Will Porter worked on the Houston
Post, that his ability to draw cartoons was called into requisition
soon after he joined the staff of the Post. Some of the best of these
cartoons depict the political situation of the time. Others are
entirely independent of politics and point to the development of the
present-day comic strips in all newspapers. Sometimes they portray
character traits and are accompanied by rhymed quips. At other times
they are used to illustrate lengthy stories. These stories, of course,
were composed by Will Porter, and from them the selections for this
volume have been made.

The word-usage, sentence-structure, mythological allusion,
plot-manipulation, character types, and central ideas that
characterize O. Henry's short stories generally, are also plainly
recognizable in these selections from the _Houston Post_. For example,
"A Tragedy" not only turns on a pun, as O. Henry's stories often do,
but is based upon the story of The Arabian Nights, which later colored
O. Henry's whole conception of New York City, Little-Old-Bagdad-on-
the-Subway. The central idea of "An Odd Character," the story of a
tramp who claims to be 241 years old, appeared later in "The Enchanted
Kiss" and "Door of Unrest."

The characters of these earlier stories--shop-girls, Irish policemen,
crooks, tramps, sheep-men, cowmen, drunkards, pharmacists, doctors,
newspaper reporters, dudes--are practically identical with many of
those used in later O. Henry stories. Likewise, O. Henry's propensity
for the use of the "envelope structure," the sort provided by the
pilgrimage in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, and "narrated development,"
or the telling of the story by one of the characters, is very much in
evidence in these _Houston Post_ stories, as in a number of his later
acknowledged works. For example, in "The Mirage on the Frio" a
sheep-man from La Salle County tells his story to a group of men on a
Buffalo Bayou fishing party; and later in Cabbages and Kings the story
of "The Shamrock and the Palm" is told by the Irishman Clancy to a
group of fellow Caucasians who have met at the end of a tropical day.
A large amount of internal evidence, moreover, points emphatically to
O. Henry as the author of these pieces. They have the unmistakable
stylistic qualities, the humorous point of view, the unexpected
climaxes of O. Henry, After a careful and detailed study of every
single piece of the material here reproduced, along with the
application of various stylistic tests, I was thoroughly convinced of
the authenticity of its authorship. In order to support my own
convictions, however, I consulted experts who have been students of O.
Henry for years. Dr. L. W. Payne, Jr., of The University of Texas, Dr.
Vernon Loggins, of Columbia University, and Dr. Dorothy Scarborough,
also of Columbia and compiler of many books of short stories, examined
photostatic copies which I had made of the material. They are
unanimous in the opinion that the authorship of both the drawings with
their legends and the articles and stories may be safely attributed to
O. Henry's pen.

The nature of the material included in this volume determined the
arrangement of the book into three parts. The stories in the first
part show that Will Porter had already discovered the technique that
made him famous as O. Henry. The sketches in the second part show O.
Henry at work-gathering story material from his observations of life.
Will Porter's ventures into the realm of newspaper poetry, I have
included in order to illustrate the principles set forth in his
article "Newspaper Poets," also reprinted here. As far as I know, this
article is the only bit of serious literary criticism ever written by
O. Henry. It is noteworthy also as the only article in the _Houston
Post_ which was ever signed in full by "W. S. Porter." A more detailed
treatment of this and allied topics concerning O. Henry's life in
Texas may be found in my O. Henry in Texas, designed as a companion
volume to the present book.



Part One: Stories

A Night Errant

One of the greatest of books is the daily life around us. All that the
human mind can conceive; all that the human heart can feel, and the
lips tell are encompassed in the little world about us. He that
beholds with understanding eyes can see beneath the thin veil of the
commonplace, the romance, the tragedy and the broad comedy that is
being played upon the world's stage by the actors great and little who
tread the boards of the Theater of the Universe.

Life is neither tragedy nor comedy. It is a mingling of both. High
above us omnipotent hands pull the strings that choke our laughter
with sobs and cause strange sounds of mirth to break in upon our
deepest grief. We are marionettes that dance and cry, scarce at our
own wills; and at the end, the flaring lights are out, we are laid to
rest in our wooden boxes, and down comes the dark night to cover the
scene of our brief triumph.

We elbow heroes on the streets as grand as any the poets have sung; in
the faces of obscure women and prosy men a student of his kind can see
the imprints of all the passions, both good and bad, that have
illuminated the pages of song and story.

There is good in all, and we are none all good. The scholar in his
library, the woodcutter in the forest, my lady in her boudoir and the
painted, hard-eyed denizen of the byways--we are all from the same
clay.

And the hands of fate pull the strings, and we caper and pirouette;
and some go up and some go down and haphazard chance or else an
obscure divinity pulls us this way and that, and where are we left?
Blind and chattering on the brink of an eternal unknowableness. We
spring from a common root. The king and the bricklayer are equal
except as to environs; the queen and the milkmaid may sit side by side
with pail and crown on the ragged edge of destiny; the human heart is
the same the world over; and when the judge sits upon the doings of
his puppets, who will prevail?

The Post Man has an overcoat with a high collar. This is convenient in
more ways than one. He turns it up when passing beggars upon the
street corners, and thus shuts out their importunities and saves his
conscience; he pulls it around his ears with dignified stateliness
when meeting gentlemen who deal in goods which he hath bought anon;
and lastly, it is useful when the weather is cold.

Sometimes when the purple shades begin to fall on Saturday evening and
the cool mists creep up from the sluggish waters of the bayou the Post
Man dons his useful article of apparel and hieth him forth among the
hedges and the highways. He sees the seamy side through the gilding
that covers the elect of the earth, and he sees the pure gold that
glitters amid the mire where tread the lowly and meek of heart. He
catches the note of discord in the prayer of the Pharisee on the
street corner, and the jangle of the untuned bells that hang above
many houses of worship. He sees strange deeds of nobility and lofty
self-denial among people from whose touch respectability draws aside
its skirts, and the mark of the beast upon the brow of the high and
saintly.

A little here and there he jots down upon his pad; the greater part of
the panorama goes by unrecorded until something comes in the vast To
Be that will either explain--or end.

    * * * * *

Robert Burns has drawn a perfect picture of the purest peace and
happiness in his "Cotter's Saturday Night." The laborer comes home
from his work and is met by his joyful family. The fire burns
brightly, the lamp is lit, and they draw the curtains and sit about
their humble board, shutting in their little happy world from the cold
and bleak night.

There are such homes now and always will be, but if one will traverse
the streets of a city on Saturday night he will witness many scenes of
a far different nature.

As the homeward bound columns file along the sidewalks there is much
to be seen that presages sorrow and scant comfort to the waiting ones
at their homes. There are staggering steps, loud speeches with rude
and thickened tongues, and plentiful signs of misspent wages and the
indulgence of debased appetites.

The saloons are reaping a rich harvest that should belong to wives and
children. Some fling away in an hour what has taken them days to earn,
and will carry home nothing but sullen looks and empty pockets. You
can see all along the streets pale, anxious-looking women slipping
through the crowd in the hope of meeting the providers and protectors
of their homes, and inducing them to come there instead of lingering
with their besotted comrades. What should be a season of rest and
repose beneath the home vine and fig tree is turned into Saturnalia,
and a loosing of bad passions.

Homeward flit the trim shop girls, the week's work over, intent on the
rest and pleasure of the morrow; threading their straightforward and
dextrous way through the throng. Homeward plods the weary housekeeper
with her basket of vegetables for Sunday's dinner. Homeward goes the
solid citizen laden with bundles and bags. Homeward slip weary working
women, hurrying to fill the hungry mouths awaiting them.
Respectability moves homeward, but as the everlasting stars creep out
above, queer and warped things steal forth like imps of the night to
hide, and sulk, and carouse, and prey upon whatever the darkness
bringeth to them.

Down on the bank of the bayou, beyond the car shops, the foundries,
the lumbermills and the great manufactories that go to make Houston
the wonderful business and trade center she is, stands--or rather,
leans--a little shanty. It is made of clapboards, old planks, pieces
of tin and odds and ends of lumber picked up here and there. It is
built close to the edge of the foul and sluggish bayou. Back of it
rises the bank full ten feet high; below it, only a few feet, ripples
the sullen tide.

In this squalid hut lives Crip. Crip is nine years old. He is
freckled-faced, thin and subdued. From his knee his left leg is gone
and in its place is a clumsy wooden stump, on which he limps around at
quite a wonderful pace. Crip's mother cleans up three or four offices
on Main Street and takes in washing at other times. Somehow, they
manage to live in this tottering habitation patched up by Crip's
father, who several years before had fallen into the bayou one night
while drunk, and what was left of him by the catfish was buried upon
the bank a hundred yards farther down. Of late, Crip had undertaken to
assist in the mutual support.

One morning he came stumping timidly into the office of the Post and
purchased a few papers. These he offered for sale upon the streets
with great diffidence. Crip had no difficulty in selling his papers.
People stopped and bought readily the wares of this shrinking,
weak-voiced youngster. His wooden leg caught the eye of hurrying
passersby and the nickels rained into his hand as long as he had any
papers left.

One morning Crip failed to call for his papers. The next day he did
not appear, nor the next, and one of the newsboys was duly questioned
as to his absence.

"Crip's got de pewmonia," he said.

The Post Man, albeit weighed down by numerous tribulations of others
and his own, when night comes puts on his overcoat and wends his way
down the bayou toward the home of Crip.

The air is chilly and full of mist, and great puddles left by the
recent rains glimmer and sparkle in the electric lights. No wonder
that pneumonia has laid its cold hand upon the frail and weakly Crip,
living as he does in the rain-soaked shanty down on the water's edge.
The Post Man goes to inquire if he has had a doctor and if he is
supplied with the necessities his condition must require. He walks
down the railroad tracks and comes close upon two figures marching
with uncertain stateliness in the same direction.

One of them speaks loudly, with oratorical flourish, but with an
exaggerated carefulness that proclaims he is in a certain stage of
intoxication. His voice is well known in the drawing-rooms and the
highest social circles of Houston. His name is--well, let us call him
Old Boy, for so do his admiring companions denominate him. There comes
hurrying past them the form of a somberly-clad woman.

Intuitively the Post Man thinks she is of the house of Crip and
accosts her with interrogatories. He gleans from her gasping brogue
that a doctor has seen Crip and that he is very sick, but with proper
medicines, nursing and food he will probably recover. She is now
hastening to the drug store to buy--with her last dollar, she
says--the medicine he must take at once.

"I will stay with him until you return," says the Post Man, and with a
fervent "Hiven bless you, sorr!" she melts away toward the lights of
the city.

The house where Crip lives is on a kind of shelf on the bayou side and
its approach from above must be made down a set of steep and roughly
hewn steps cut into the bank by the deceased architect of the house.
At the top of these stairs the two society lights stop.

"Old Boy," says one of them, "give it up. It might be catching. And
you are going to the dance tonight. This little rat of a newsboy--why
should you see him personally? Come, let's go back. You've had so
much--"

"Bobby," says the Old Boy, "have I labored all these years in vain,
trying to convince you that you are an ass? I know I'm a devil of a
buzzerfly, and glash of fashion, but I've gozzer see zat boy. Sold me
papers a week, 'n now zey tell me he's sick in this ratsh hole down
here. Come on, Bobby, or else go't devil. I'm going in."

Old Boy pushes his silk hat to the back of his head and starts with
dangerous rapidity down the steep stairs.

His friend, seeing that he is determined, takes his arm and they both
sway and stagger down to the little shelf of land below.

The Post Man follows them silently, and they are too much occupied
with their own unsteady progress to note his presence. He slips around
them, raises the latch of the rickety door, stoops and enters the
miserable hut.

Crip lies on a meager bed in the corner, with great, feverish eyes,
and little, bony, restless fingers moving nervously upon the covers.
The night wind blows in streamy draughts between the many crannies and
flares the weak flame of a candle stuck in its own grease upon the top
of a wooden box.

"Hello, mister," says Crip. "I knows yer. Yer works on de paper. I
been laid up wid a rattlin' pain in me chist. Who wins de fight?"

"Fitzsimmons won," says the Post Man, feeling his hot freckled hand.
"Are you in much pain?"

"How many rounds?"

"First round. Less than two minutes. Can I do anything to make you
easier?"

"Geeminetty! dat was quick. Yer might gimme a drink."

The door opens again and two magnificent beings enter. Crip gives a
little gasp as his quick eyes fall upon them. Old Boy acknowledges the
presence of the Post Man by a deep and exaggerated but well
intentioned bow, and then he goes and stands by Crip's bedside.

"Old man," he says, with solemnly raised eyebrows, "Whazzer mazzer?"

"Sick," says Crip. "I know yer. Yer gimme a quarter for a paper one
mornin'."

Old Boy's friend ranges himself in the background. He is a man in a
dress suit with a mackintosh and cane, and is not of an obtrusive
personality.

He shows an inclination to brace himself against something, but the
fragile furniture of the hut not promising much support, he stands
uneasily, with a perplexed frown upon his face, awaiting developments.

"You little devil," says Old Boy, smiling down with mock anger at the
little scrap of humanity under the covers, "Do you know why I've come
to see you?"

"N-n-n-no, sir," says Crip, the fever flush growing deeper on his
cheeks. He has never seen anything so wonderful as this grand, tall,
handsome man in his black evening suit, with the dark, half-smiling,
half-frowning eyes, and the great diamond flashing on his snowy bosom,
and the tall, shiny hat on the back of his head.

"Gen'lemen," says Old Boy, with a comprehensive wave of his hand, "I
don't know myself, why I have come here, but I couldn't help it. That
little devil's eyes have been in my head for a week. I've never sheen
him 'n my life till a week ago; but I've sheen his eyes somewhere,
long time ago. Sheems to me I knew this little rascal when I was a kid
myself 'way back before I left Alabama; but, then, gentlemen, thash
impossible. However, as Bobby will tell you, I made him walk all the
way down here with me to shee zis little sick fellow, 'n now we mus'
do all we can for 'm."

Old Boy runs his hands into his pockets and draws out the contents
thereof and lays all, with lordly indiscrimination, on the ragged
quilt that covers Crip.

"Little devil," he says solemnly, "you mus' buy medicine and get well
and come back and shell me papers again. Where in thunder have I seen
you before? Never mind. Come on, Bobby--good boy to wait for me--come
on now and le's get a zrink."

The two magnificent gentlemen sway around grandly for a moment, make
elaborate but silent adieus in the direction of Crip and the Post Man,
and finally dwindle out into the darkness, where they can be heard
urging each other forward to the tremendous feat of remounting the
steps that lead to the path above.

Presently Crip's mother returns with his medicine and proceeds to make
him comfortable. She gives a screech of surprise at what she sees
lying upon the bed, and proceeds to take an inventory. There are $42
in currency, $6.50 in silver, a lady's silver slipper buckle and an
elegant pearl-handled knife with four blades.

The Post Man sees Crip take his medicine and his fever go down, and
promising him to bring down a paper that tells all about the great
fight, he moves away. A thought strikes him, and he stops near the
door and says:

"Your husband, now where was he from?"

"Oh, plaze yer honor," says Crip's mother, "from Alabama he was, and a
gentleman born, as everyone could tell till the dhrink got away wid
him, and thin he married me."

As the Post Man departs he hears Crip say to his mother reverentially:

"Dat man what left de stuff, mammy, he couldn't have been God, for God
don't get full; but if it wasn't him, mammy, I bet a dollar he was Dan
Stuart."

As the Post Man trudges back along the dark road to the city, he says
to himself:

"We have seen tonight good springing up where we would never have
looked for it, and something of a mystery all the way from Alabama.
Heigho! this is a funny little world."

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, March 1, 1896.)



In Mezzotint

The doctor had long ago ceased his hospital practice, but whenever
there was a case of special interest among the wards, his spirited
team of bays was sure to be seen standing at the hospital gates.
Young, handsome, at the head of his profession, possessing an ample
income, and married but six months to a beautiful girl who adored him,
his lot was certainly one to be envied.

It must have been nine o'clock when he reached home. The stableman
took the team, and he ran up the steps lightly. The door opened, and
Doris's arms were flung tightly about his neck, and her wet cheek
pressed to his.

"Oh, Ralph," she said, her voice quivering and plaintive, "you are so
late. You can't think how I miss you when you don't come at the usual
hour. I've kept supper warm for you. I'm so jealous of those patients
of yours--they keep you from me so much."

"How fresh and sweet and wholesome you are, after the sights I have to
see," he said, smiling down at her girlish face with the airy
confidence of a man who knows himself well beloved. "Now, pour my
coffee, little one, while I go up and change clothes."

After supper he sat in the library in his favorite arm chair, and she
sat in her especial place upon the arm of the chair and held a match
for him to light his cigar. She seemed so glad to have him with her;
every touch was a caress, and every word she spoke had that lingering,
loving drawl that a woman uses to but one man--at a time.

"I lost my case of cerebrospinal meningitis tonight," he said gravely.

"I have you, and I don't have you," she said. "Your thoughts are
always with your profession, even when I think you are most mine. Ah,
well," with a sigh, "you help the suffering, and I would see all that
suffer relieved or else like your cerebro--what is it?--patient, at
rest."

"A queer case, too," said the doctor, patting his wife's hand and
gazing into the clouds of cigar smoke. "He should have recovered. I
had him cured, and he died on my hands without any warning.
Ungrateful, too, for I treated that case beautifully. Confound the
fellow. I believe he wanted to die. Some nonsensical romance worried
him into a fever."

"A romance? Oh, Ralph, tell it to me. Just think! A romance in a
hospital."

"He tried to tell it to me this morning in snatches between paroxysms
of pain. He was bending backward till his head almost touched his
heels, and his ribs were nearly cracking, yet he managed to convey
something of his life story."

"Oh, how horrible," said the doctor's wife, slipping her arm between
his neck and the chair.

"It seems," went on the doctor, "as well as I could gather, that some
girl had discarded him to marry a more well-to-do man, and he lost
hope and interest in life, and went to the dogs. No, he refused to
tell her name. There was a great pride in that meningitis case. He
lied like an angel about his own name, and he gave his watch to the
nurse and spoke to her as he would to a queen. I don't believe I ever
will forgive him for dying, for I worked the next thing to a miracle
on him. Well, he died this morning, and--let me get a match--oh, yes,
here's a little thing in my pocket he gave me to have buried with him.
He told me about starting to a concert with this girl one night, and
they decided not to go in, but take a moonlight walk instead. She tore
the ticket in two pieces, and gave him one-half and kept the other.
Here's his half, this little red piece of pasteboard with the word
'Admit--' printed on it. Look out, little one--that old chair arm is
so slippery. Hurt you?"

"No, Ralph. I'm not so easy hurt. What do you think love is, Ralph?"

"Love? Little one! Oh, love is undoubtedly a species of mild insanity.
An overbalance of the brain that leads to an abnormal state. It is as
much a disease as measles, but as yet, sentimentalists refuse to hand
it over to us doctors of medicine for treatment."

His wife took the half of the little red ticket and held it up.
"Admit--" she said, with a little laugh. "I suppose by this time he's
admitted somewhere, isn't he, Ralph?"

"Somewhere," said the doctor, lighting his cigar afresh.

"Finish your cigar, Ralph, and then come up," she said. "I'm a little
tired, and I'll wait for you above."

"All right, little one," said the doctor. "Pleasant dreams!" He smoked
the cigar out, and then lit another.

It was nearly eleven when he went upstairs.

The light in his wife's room was turned low, and she lay upon her bed
undressed. As he stepped to her side and raised her hand, some steel
instrument fell and jingled upon the floor, and he saw upon the white
countenance a creeping red horror that froze his blood.

He sprang to the lamp and turned up the blaze. As he parted his lips
to send forth a shout, he paused for a moment, with his eyes upon his
dead patient's half ticket that lay upon the table. The other half had
been neatly fitted to it, and it now read:

   +-----------+
   | Admit Two |
   +-----------+

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, April 26, 1896.)



The Dissipated Jeweler

You will not find the name of Thomas Keeling in the Houston city
directory. It might have been there by this time, if Mr. Keeling had
not discontinued his business a month or so ago and moved to other
parts. Mr. Keeling came to Houston about that time and opened up a
small detective bureau. He offered his services to the public as a
detective in rather a modest way. He did not aspire to be a rival of
the Pinkerton agency, but preferred to work along less risky lines.

If an employer wanted the habits of a clerk looked into, or a lady
wanted an eye kept upon a somewhat too gay husband, Mr. Keeling was
the man to take the job. He was a quiet, studious man with theories.
He read Gaboriau and Conan Doyle and hoped some day to take a higher
place in his profession. He had held a subordinate place in a large
detective bureau in the East, but as promotion was slow, he decided to
come West, where the field was not so well covered.

Mr. Keeling had saved during several years the sum of $900, which he
deposited in the safe of a business man in Houston to whom he had
letters of introduction from a common friend. He rented a small
upstairs office on an obscure street, hung out a sign stating his
business, and burying himself in one of Doyle's Sherlock Holmes
stories, waited for customers.

Three days after he opened his bureau, which consisted of himself, a
client called to see him.

It was a young lady, apparently about 26 years of age. She was slender
and rather tall and neatly dressed. She wore a thin veil which she
threw back upon her black straw hat after she had taken the chair Mr.
Keeling offered her. She had a delicate, refined face, with rather
quick gray eyes, and a slightly nervous manner.

    * * * * *

"I came to see you, sir," she said in a sweet, but somewhat sad,
contralto voice, "because you are comparatively a stranger, and I
could not bear to discuss my private affairs with any of my friends. I
desire to employ you to watch the movements of my husband. Humiliating
as the confession is to me, I fear that his affections are no longer
mine. Before I married him he was infatuated with a young woman
connected with a family with whom he boarded. We have been married
five years, and very happily, but this young woman has recently moved
to Houston, and I have reasons to suspect that he is paying her
attentions. I want you to watch his movements as closely as possible
and report to me. I will call here at your office every other day at a
given time to learn what you have discovered. My name is Mrs. R----,
and my husband is well known. He keeps a small jewelry store on
Street. I will pay you well for your services and here is $20 to begin
with."

The lady handed Mr. Keeling the bill and he took it carelessly as if
such things were very, very common in his business.

He assured her that he would carry out her wishes faithfully, and
asked her to call again the afternoon after the next at four o'clock,
for the first report.

The next day Mr. Keeling made the necessary inquiries toward beginning
operations. He found the jewelry store, and went inside ostensibly to
have the crystal of his watch tightened. The jeweler, Mr. R----, was a
man apparently 35 years of age, of very quiet manners and industrious
ways. His store was small, but contained a nice selection of goods and
quite a large assortment of diamonds, jewelry and watches. Further
inquiry elicited the information that Mr. R was a man of excellent
habits, never drank and was always at work at his jeweler's bench.

Mr. Keeling loafed around near the door of the jewelry store for
several hours that day and was finally rewarded by seeing a flashily
dressed young woman with black hair and eyes enter the store. Mr.
Keeling sauntered nearer the door, where he could see what took place
inside. The young woman walked confidently to the rear of the store,
leaned over the counter and spoke familiarly to Mr. R----. He rose
from his bench and they talked in low tones for a few minutes.
Finally, the jeweler handed her some coins, which Mr. Keeling heard
clinking as they passed into her hands. The woman then came out and
walked rapidly down the street.

Mr. Keeling's client was at his office promptly at the time agreed
upon. She was anxious to know if he had seen anything to corroborate
her suspicions. The detective told her what he had seen.

"That is she," said the lady, when he had described the young woman
who had entered the store. "The brazen, bold thing! And so Charles is
giving her money. To think that things should come to this pass."

The lady pressed her handkerchief to her eyes in an agitated way.

"Mrs. R----," said the detective, "what is your desire in this matter?
To what point do you wish me to prosecute inquiries?"

"I want to see with my own eyes enough to convince me of what I
suspect. I also want witnesses, so I can instigate suit for divorce. I
will not lead the life I am now living any longer."

She then handed the detective a ten-dollar bill.

On the day following the next, when she came to Mr. Keeling's office
to hear his report, he said:

"I dropped into the store this afternoon on some trifling pretext.
This young woman was already there, but she did not remain long.
Before she left, she said: 'Charlie, we will have a jolly little
supper tonight as you suggest; then we will come around to the store
and have a nice chat while you finish that setting for the diamond
broach with no one to interrupt us.' Tonight, Mrs. R----, I think,
will be a good time for you to witness the meeting between your
husband and the object of his infatuation, and satisfy your mind how
matters stand."

"The wretch," cried the lady with flashing eyes. "He told me at dinner
that he would be detained late tonight with some important work. And
this is the way he spends his time away from me!"

"I suggest," said the detective, "that you conceal yourself in the
store, so you can hear what they say, and when you have heard enough
you can summon witnesses and confront your husband before them."

"The very thing," said the lady. "I believe there is a policeman whose
beat is along the street the store is on who is acquainted with our
family. His duties will lead him to be in the vicinity of the store
after dark. Why not see him, explain the whole matter to him and when
I have heard enough, let you and him appear as witnesses?"

"I will speak with him," said the detective, "and persuade him to
assist us, and you will please come to my office a little before dark
tonight, so we can arrange to trap them."

    * * * * *

The detective hunted up the policeman and explained the situation.

"That's funny," said the guardian of the peace. "I didn't know R----
was a gay boy at all. But, then, you can never tell about anybody. So
his wife wants to catch him tonight. Let's see, she wants to hide
herself inside the store and hear what they say. There's a little room
in the back of the store where R---- keeps his coal and old boxes. The
door between is locked, of course, but if you can get her through that
into the store she can hide somewhere. I don't like to mix up in these
affairs, but I sympathize with the lady. I've known her ever since we
were children and don't mind helping her to do what she wants."

About dusk that evening the detective's client came hurriedly to his
office. She was dressed plainly in black and wore a dark round hat and
her face was covered with a veil.

"If Charlie should see me he will not recognize me," she said.

Mr. Keeling and the lady strolled down the street opposite the jewelry
store, and about eight o'clock the young woman they were watching for
entered the store. Immediately afterwards she came out with Mr. R----,
took his arm, and they hurried away, presumably to their supper.

The detective felt the arm of the lady tremble.

"The wretch," she said bitterly. "He thinks me at home innocently
waiting for him while he is out carousing with that artful, designing
minx. Oh, the perfidy of man."

Mr. Keeling took the lady through an open hallway that led into the
back yard of the store. The outer door of the back room was unlocked,
and they entered.

"In the store," said Mrs. R----, "near the bench where my husband
works is a large table, the cover of which hangs to the floor. If I
could get under that I could hear every word that was said."

Mr. Keeling took a big bunch of skeleton keys from his pocket and in a
few minutes found one that opened the door into the jewelry store. The
gas was burning from one jet turned very low.

The lady stepped into the store and said: "I will bolt this door from
the inside, and I want you to follow my husband and that woman. See if
they are at supper, and if they are, when they start back, you must
come back to this room and let me know by tapping thrice on the door.
After I listen to their conversation long enough I will unbolt the
door, and we will confront the guilty pair together. I may need you to
protect me, for I do not know what they might attempt to do to me."

    * * * * *

The detective made his way softly out and followed the jeweler and the
woman. He soon discovered that they had taken a private room in a
little out of the way restaurant and had ordered supper. He lingered
about until they came out and then hurried back to the store, and
entering the back room, tapped three times on the door.

In a few minutes the jeweler entered with the woman and the detective
saw the light shine more brightly through a crack in the door. He
could hear the man and woman conversing familiarly and constantly, but
could not distinguish their words. He slipped around again to the
street, and looking through the window, could see Mr. R---- working
away at his jeweler's bench, while the black-haired woman sat close to
his side and talked.

"I'll give them a little time," thought Mr. Keeling, and he strolled
down the street.

The policeman was standing on the corner.

The detective told him that Mrs. R---- was concealed in the store, and
that the scheme was working nicely.

"I'll drop back behind now," said Mr. Keeling, "so as to be ready when
the lady springs her trap."

The policeman walked back with him, and took a look through the
window.

"They seem to have made up all right," said he. "Where's the other
woman gotten to?"

"Why, there she is sitting by him," said the detective. "I'm talking
about the girl R---- had out to supper."

"So am I," said the detective.

"You seem to be mixed up," said the policeman. "Do you know that lady
with R----?"

"That's the woman he was out with."

"That's R----'s wife," said the policeman. "I've known her for fifteen
years."

"Then, who--?" gasped the detective, "Lord A'mighty, then who's under
the table?"

Mr. Keeling began to kick at the door of the store. Mr. R---- came
forward and opened it.

The policeman and the detective entered. "Look under that table,
quick," yelled the detective. The policeman raised the cover and
dragged out a blade dress, a black veil and a woman's wig of black
hair.

"Is this lady your w-w-wife?" asked Mr. Keeling excitedly, pointing
out the dark-eyed young woman, who was regarding them in great
surprise.

"Certainly," said the jeweler. "Now what the thunder are you looking
under my tables and kicking down my door for, if you please?"

"Look in your show cases," said the policeman, who began to size up
the situation.

    * * * * *

The diamond rings and watches that were missing amounted to $800, and
the next day the detective settled the bill.

Explanations were made to the jeweler that night, and an hour later
Mr. Keeling sat in his office busily engaged in looking over his
albums of crook's photos.

At last he found one, and he stopped turning over the leaves and tore
his hair. Under the picture of a smooth-faced young man, with delicate
features was the following description:

    "James H. Miggles, alias Slick Simon, alias The Weeping
    Widow, alias Bunco Kate, alias Jimmy the Sneak, General
    confidence man and burglar. Works generally in female
    disguises. Very plausible and dangerous. Wanted in Kansas
    City, Oshkosh, New Orleans and Milwaukee."

This is why Mr. Thomas Keeling did not continue his detective business
in Houston.

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, May 17, 1896.)



How Willie Saved Father

Willie Flint was a little Houston boy, six years of age. He was a
beautiful child, with long golden curls and wondering, innocent blue
eyes. His father was a respectable, sober citizen, who owned four or
five large business buildings on Main Street. All day long Mr. Flint
toiled among his renters, collecting what was due him, patching up
broken window panes, nailing down loose boards and repairing places
where the plastering had fallen off. At noon he would sit down upon
the stairs of one of his buildings and eat the frugal dinner he had
brought, wrapped up in a piece of newspaper, and think about the hard
times. Gay and elegantly attired clerks and business men would pass up
and down the stairs, but Mr. Flint did not envy them. He lived in a
little cottage near the large trash pile known as "Tomato Can
Heights," on one of the principal residence streets of Houston. He was
perfectly contented to live there with his wife and little boy Willie,
and eat his frugal but wholesome fare and draw his $1,400 per month
rent for his buildings. He was industrious and temperate, and hardly a
day passed that he did not raise the rent of some of his offices, and
lay by a few more dollars for a rainy day.

One night Mr. Flint came home ill. He had been pasting up some cheap
green wall paper on an empty stomach, or rather on the wall of one of
his stores without eating, and it had not agreed with him. He went to
bed flushed with fever, muttering: "God help my poor wife and child!
What will become of them now?"

Mr. Flint sent Willie to the other side of the room and drew a roll of
greenbacks from under his pillow.

"Take this," he said to his wife, "to the bank and deposit it. There
is only $900 there. Some of my renters have not paid me yet, and five
of them want awnings put up at the windows. He who sent the ravens to
feed Elijah will provide for us. Come by the baker's and get a nickel
loaf of bread, and then hurry back and pray."

Willie was pretending to play with his Noah's ark, by charging the
animals for rent and water, and adding the amounts on his slate, but
he heard what his father said.

As his mother went out, he asked: "Mamma, is papa too sick to work?"

"Yes, dear," said Mrs. Flint; "he has a high fever, and I fear will be
very ill." After his mother had gone Willie put on his hat and slipped
out the front door.

"I want to do something to help my good, kind papa, who is sick," he
said to himself.

He wandered up to Main Street and stood looking at the tall buildings
that his poor father owned.

Passersby smiled when they saw the little flaxen-haired boy, and many
a rough face softened at the sight of his innocent blue eyes. Poor
little Willie. What could he do in the great, busy city to help his
sick father?

"I know what I will do," he said to himself presently. "I will go up
and raise the rent of several offices and that will make my papa feel
better."

Willie toiled up three flights of stairs of one of his father's
largest buildings. He had to sit down quite often and rest, for he was
short on wind.

Away up to the third story was an office rented by two young men who
had just begun to practice law. They had their sign out, and had given
their note to Mr. Flint for the first month's rent. As Willie climbed
the stairs the young lawyers were eating some cheese and crackers,
with their feet on their desks, and six empty quart beer bottles stood
upon a table. They were breathing hard, and one of them, who had a
magnolia in his buttonhole, was telling a funny story about a girl.

Presently one of them took his feet off his desk, opened his eyes and
said: "Jeeminy! Bob, get onto his Fauntleroyets."

The gentleman addressed as Bob also took his feet down, wiped his
knife, with which he had been slicing cheese, on his hair, and looked
around.

A little blue-eyed boy with long golden curls stood in the doorway.

"Come in, sissy," said one of the young men.

Willie walked boldly into the room.

"I'm not a girl," he said. "My name is Willie Flint, and I've come to
raise the rent."

"Now, that's kind of you, Willie," said the young man called Bob, "to
come and do that, for we couldn't do it if we were to be electrocuted.
Is that your own hair, Willie, or do you ride a bicycle?"

"Don't worry the little boy," said the other young gentleman, whom Bob
addressed as Sam. "I'm sure that this is a nice little boy. I say,
Willie, did you ever hear a gumdrop?"

"Don't tease him," said Bob severely. "He reminds me of
someone--excuse my tears--those curls, those bloomers. Say, Willie,
speak quick, my child--two hundred and ten years ago, were you
standing--"

"Oh, let him alone," said Sam, frowning at the other young gentleman.
"Willie, as a personal favor, would you mind weeping a while on the
floor? I am overcome by ennui, and would be moved to joy."

"My papa is very ill," said Willie, bravely forcing back his tears,
"and something must be done for him. Please, kind gentleman, let me
raise the rent of this office so I can go back and tell him and make
him better."

"It's old Flint's kid," said Bob. "Don't he make your face wide? Say,
Willie, how much do you want to raise the rent?"

"What do you pay now?" asked Willie.

"Ten dollars a month."

"Could you make it twelve?"

"Call it fifty," said Sam, lighting a black cigar, "at ninety days,
and open the beer, Willie, and it's a deal."

"Don't talk nonsense," said Bob. "I say, Willie, you may raise the
rent to twenty dollars if you like, and run and tell your father, if
it will do him any good."

"Oh, thank you," cried Willie, and he ran home with a light heart,
singing merrily.

When he got home he found Mr. Flint sinking fast and muttering
something about giving his wife a ten-dollar bill.

"He is out of his head," said Mrs. Flint, bursting into tears.

Willie ran to the bed and whispered to his father's ear: "Papa, I have
raised the rent of one of your offices from ten to twenty dollars."

"You, my child!" said his father, laying his hand on Willie's head.
"God bless my brave little boy."

Mr. Flint sank into a peaceful slumber and his fever left him. The
next day he was able to sit up, and feeling much stronger, when Willie
told him whose rent it was he had raised.

Mr. Flint then fell dead.

Alas! messieurs, life is full of disappointments!

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, May 3, 1896.)



The Mirage on the Frio

The sheep man rejected the offer of a match, and lit his pipe from a
burning brand. We were down on Buffalo Bayou fishing, and had cooked
and eaten supper. Fried fresh fish, coffee, corn bread, potatoes, and
just enough crisp bacon to flavor gave us a supper at which none
murmured.

We reclined at ease and worshipped the goddess Nicotine. The moon made
a glory in the eastern sky and spread a white shimmering glamour upon
the black water of the bayou. A phantom tug crept down stream, leaving
a ghostly, wavering silver wake, and a mysterious lapping and washing
along the unseen shores. Mosquitoes hummed angrily about the borders
of the hanging cloud of tobacco smoke. A dank fresh smell arose from
bursting buds and wild flowers. We five sat in the chiaroscuro of the
live oaks and cypresses, and babbled as most men and all women will
when Night, the tongue loosener, succeeds the discrete Day.

Night should be held responsible for poets, breach of promise suits,
betrayed secrets and dull stories. The man who will not tell more than
he knows in the moonlight of a spring night is a rarity. Four of us
were more or less hardened to moonlight and roses; one among us was
young enough to note the soft effect of Luna's kiss upon the dim tree
tops, the aerial perspective of the drifting gulf clouds, and the dim
white eyes of the dogwood blossoms peering out of the wooded darkness.
He noted and spake his thoughts without stint of adjectives, while we
world-worn passengers grunted in reply; puffed at our cigars and
pipes, and refused to commit ourselves on such trifling matters.

"Isn't it beautiful?" asked the young man. "The sky like the derne of
some dream temple, the woods dark with mystery and the silence broken
only by the faint breathing of nature."

"It's nice, and no mistake," answered the insurance agent, "but let me
tell you, I've known men to plant the seeds of incurable disease along
this old bayou. Feel that dampness rising every minute? A fellow never
knows what is going to happen. Especially a man with a family
dependent on him should--"

"Shut up," snapped the druggist. "For talking shop, recommend me to a
man in your line. This is a pleasure trip we are on, and I have to
have it spoiled by ringing in business. Talk about your malaria, why,
two bottles of my--"

"There you go, just as bad," said the lawyer. "You fellows have run in
the same old rut so long you can't get your minds on anything else.
Put me on the witness stand, and I'll swear that I never mention my
own business outside of my office; if I don't, kick me clean out of
court."

"This night," said the sheep man, "reminds me of the night I was lost
in the brush along the Frio. That was the night before the morning I
seen the mi-ridge."

"The--ah--oh! the mirage?" said the young man.

"No," said the sheep man, "it wasn't no mi-rosh; this was a mi-ridge,
and the plainest one I ever seen. They happened somethin' queer about
this one, too, and I don't often tell it, after seein' that
incredoolity generally waits upon the relatin' of it."

    * * * * *

"Light up," said the druggist, reaching for the tobacco sack, "and let
us have your yarn. There are very few things a man can't believe
nowadays."

"It was in the fall of '80," said the sheep man, "when I was runnin'
sheep in La Salle County. There came a norther that scattered my flock
of 1500 muttons to thunderation. The shepherd couldn't hold 'em and
they split up right and left, through the chaparral. I got on my hoss
and hunted all one day, and I rounded up the biggest part of 'em
during the afternoon. I seen a Mexican ridin' along what told me they
was a big 'tajo of 'em down near the Palo Blanco crossin' of the Frio.
I rode over that way, and when sundown come I was down in a big
mesquite flat, where I couldn't see fifty yards before me any ways.
Well, I got lost. For some four or five hours my pony stumbled around
in the sacuista grass, windin' about this way and that, without
knowin' any more than I did where he was at. 'Bout 12 o'clock I give
it up, staked my pony and laid down under my saddle blanket to wait
till mornin'. I was awful worried about my wife and the kid, who was
by themselves on the ranch, for I knew they'd be scared half to death.
There wasn't much to be afraid of, but you know how women folks are
when night comes, 'specially when they wasn't any neighbor in ten
miles of 'em.

    * * * * *

"I was up at daylight, and soon as I'd got my bearin's I knowed just
where I was. Right where I was I seen the Fort Ewell road, and a big
dead elm on one side that I knew. I was just eighteen miles from my
ranch. I jumped in the saddle, when all at once, looking across the
Frio towards home, I seen this mi-ridge. These mi-ridges are sure
wonderful. I never seen but three or four. It was a kind of misty
mornin', with woolly gulf clouds a-flyin' across, and the hollows was
all hazy. I seen my ranch house, shearin' pen, the fences with saddles
hangin' on 'em, the wood pile, with the ax stickin' in a log, and
everything about the yard as plain as if they was only 200 yards away,
and I was lookin' at 'em on a foggy mornin'. Everything looked
somewhat ghostly like, and a little taller and bigger than it really
was, but I could see even the white curtains at the windows and the
pet sheep grazin' 'round the corral. It made me feel funny to see
everything so close, when I knew I was eighteen miles away.

"All to once I seen the door open, and wife come out with the kid in
her arms. It was all I could do to keep from hollerin' at her. You
bet, I was glad to see her anyhow, and know they was all safe. Just
then I seen somethin' big and black a-movin', and it growed plainer,
like it had kinder come into focus, and it was a Mexican with a
broad-brimmed sombrero, on a hoss what rode up to the fence. He
stopped there a minute and then I seen my wife run into the house and
shut the door. I seen the Mexican jump off his hoss, try the door, and
then go and get the ax at the wood pile. He came back and commenced to
split down the door. The mi-ridge commenced to get dimmer and faint
like. I don't know what made me do such a fool thing, but I couldn't
help it. I jerked my Winchester out'n its scabbard, drawed a bead on
the darned scoundrel and fired. Then I cussed myself for an idiot, for
tryin' to shoot somethin' eighteen miles away, jabbed my Winchester
back in the scabbard, stuck my spurs in my broncho, and split through
the brush like a roadrunner after a rattlesnake.

    * * * * *

"I made that eighteen miles in eighty minutes. I never took the road,
but crashed through the chaparral, jumped prickly pear and arroyo just
as they come. When I got to the ranch I fell off my pony, and he
leaned up against the fence streamin' wet and lookin' at me mighty
reproachful. I never breathed in jumpin' from the fence to the back
door. I clattered up the steps and yelled for Sallie, but my voice
sounded to me like somebody else's, 'way off. The door opened and out
tumbled the wife and the kid, all right, but scared as wild ducks.
'Oh, Jim,' says the wife, 'where, oh where have you been? A drunken
Mexican attacked the house this morning and tried to cut down the door
with an ax.' I tried to ask some questions, but I couldn't. 'Look,'
says Sallie.

"The other door was busted all to pieces and the ax was lyin' on the
step, and the Mexican was lyin' on the ground and a Winchester ball
had passed clear through his head."

"Who shot him?" asked the lawyer.

"I've told you all I know," said the sheep man. "Sallie said the man
dropped all of a sudden while he was choppin' at the door, and she
never heard no gun shoot. I don't pretend to explain nothin', I'm
telling you what happened. You might say somebody in the brush seen
him breakin' in the door and shot him, usin' noiseless powder, and
then slipped away without leavin' his card, or you might say you don't
know nothin' at all about it, as I do."

"Do you think--" began the young man.

"No, I don't think," said the sheep man, rather shortly. "I said I'd
tell you about the mi-ridge I seen, and I told you just as it
happened. Is they any coffee left in that pot?"

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, April 19, 1896.)



A Tragedy

"By the beard of the Prophet. Oh, Scheherezade, right well hast thou
done," said the Caliph, leaning back and biting off the end of a
three-for.

For one thousand nights Scheherezade No. 2, daughter of the Grand
Vizier, had sat at the feet of the mighty Caliph of the Indies
relating tales that held the court entranced and breathless.

The soft, melodious sound of falling water from the fountain tinkled
pleasantly upon the ear. Slaves sprinkled attar of roses upon the
tessellated floor, and waved jeweled fans of peacock's feathers in the
air. Outside, in the palace gardens the bulbul warbled in the date
trees, the hoodoo flitted among the banyan branches, and the dying
song of the goo-goo floated in upon the breeze from New York.

"And, now, oh, Scheherezade," continued the Caliph, "your contract
calls for one more tale. One thousand have you told unto us, and we
have rejoiced exceedingly at your narrative powers. Your stories are
all new and do not weary us as do the chestnuts of Marshall P. Wilder.
You are quite a peach. But, listen, oh, Daughter of the Moon, and
first cousin to a phonograph, there is one more yet to come. Let it be
one that has never before been related in the Kingdom. If it be thus,
thou shalt have 10,000 gold pieces and a hundred slaves at thy
command, but if it bear whiskers, then shall thy head pay the
forfeit."

The Caliph made a sign, and Mesrour, the executioner, stepped to the
side of Scheherezade. In his dark hand he held a glittering scimeter.
He folded his arms and stood like a statue as the Caliph spoke again.

"Now, oh, Scheherezade, let her go. If it be that thou givest us
something like that tale No. 475, where the Bagdad merchant was found
by his favorite wife at the roof-garden concert, with his typewriter,
or No. 684, where the Cadi of a certain town came home late from the
lodge with his shoes off and stepped upon a tack, all will be well,
but if you work off a Joe Miller on us, verily you get it in the
neck."

Scheherezade took a fresh chew of gum, sat down on one foot and began.

"Oh, mighty Caliph, I have one story that would hold you spellbound. I
call it my 288 story. But I really can not tell it. I--"

"And why not, oh, Scheherezade?"

"Oh, Brother to the Sun, and Private Secretary to the Milky Way, I am
a modest woman, it is too gross, too gross to relate."

Scheherezade covered her face in confusion.

"Speak, I command you," said the Caliph, drawing nearer. "You need not
mind me. I have read Laura Lean Jibbey and Isben. Go on with 288."

"I have said it, oh, Caliph. It is too gross."

The Caliph made a sign: Mesrour, the executioner, whirled his scimeter
through the air and the head of Scheherezade rolled upon the floor.
The Caliph pulled his beard and muttered softly to himself:

"I knew all the time that 288 is two gross, but puns don't go anywhere
in my jurisdiction at present."

(_Houston Daily Post_, Friday morning, November 8, 1895.)



Sufficient Provocation

"He hit me fust."

"He gimme de probumcation, judge."

"Nebber touched dat nigger tell he up en hit me wid er cheer."

They were two Houston negroes, and they were up before the recorder
for fighting.

"What did you strike this man with a chair for?" asked the recorder.

"I wuz playin' de French hahp, judge, to de ball ob de Sebem
'Mancipated Sons ob de Lebem Virgins, en Sam Hobson he wuz playin' de
guitar fur de niggers to dance by. Dis here coon what I hit thinks he
kin play de French hahp, too, but he kaint."

"Dat's a lie, I kin play--"

"Keep still," said the recorder sternly. "Go on with your statement."

"I wuz playin' en up comes dis here coon what I hit. He am pow'ful
jealous ob my playin' en he wuz mad 'coz de flo' committee selected me
to puhfahm. While I wuz playin' dis obstrepelous coon came right close
up to me en he say: 'Watermillions be gittin' ripe now in nudder
mont'. I keeps on playin'. He says: 'Sposin' you had a great big ripe
watermillion, wid red meat en black seeds.' I keeps on playin'. He
says: 'You take him en bus him open on a rock, en you scoop up a big
han'ful ob de heart, en you look all roun' en nobody come.' I keeps on
playin. He says: 'You cram de heart in yo' mouf, en crunch down on
hit, en de juice hit run down yo' ahm en hit run down yo' chin to yo'
neck, en de sweetness run down you' th'oat.' Den my mouf water so it
fill dat French hahp plum full, en de music stop, en de flo' committee
look aroun'. Den I up wit a chair en bus' dis coon ober de head, en I
flings myself on de mussy ob dis co't, kase, Mars Judge, you knows
what dese here sandy lan' watermillions is yo'sef."

"Get out of here, both of you," said the recorder. "Next case."

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, May 17, 1896.)



The Bruised Reed

The popular preacher sat in his study before a glowing grate, and a
satisfied smile stole over his features, as he remembered his sermon
of that morning. He had struck strong blows at sin; relating to his
breathless congregation in plain and burning words, tales of the
wickedness, debauchery, drunkenness and depravity that was going on in
their very midst.

Following the prominent example of a certain pureminded and original
servant of the Lord, he had gone down himself among the lowest haunts
of vice and iniquity, and there sketched in his mind those flaming and
accusive portraits that he had painted before the astonished eyes of
his congregation, with a broad brush and vivid colors. He had heard
blasphemies from lips that were once as pure as his sisters'; he had
stood in the midst of unbridled vice, where wine flowed like water and
amidst songs, curses, laughing and revelry, the chink of money, earned
by dripping hearts' blood, could be heard as it fell into the coffers
of the devil. Oh, he had astonished his flock! He had hurled at them
fiery words of blame that these things were allowed to exist. It had
been a new departure for him, but he expected grand results. And now
he sat by his anthracite fire, and thought over the success of his
labors, and smiled with satisfaction. The latch of his study door
clicked and a being entered. He was grizzly, rum-soaked, dirty,
ragged, disreputable, blear-eyed and of uncertain step. Once, he might
have been a man.

Across his forehead stretched a long strip of dingy court plaster; on
the bridge of his nose an unhealed wound showed scarlet against the
milder red of his face. He brought with him an odor of
disrespectability, rum and unsanctification.

The preacher rose; a slight distension visible in his delicate
nostril; a little shiver of repulsion rippling through his
broadcloth-vestured figure. "What is it, my good man?" he asked.

    * * * * *

The being spoke, and the preacher still standing, followed him through
the husky labyrinth of his speech.

"Don't yer know me? I lives in 'Hell's Delight.' I knows you. You come
down, you did, and wants ter take in ther sights. You asks Tony, the
Dago, fer a guide and he sends yer to Creepy Jake. That's me. I takes
yer through the dives, one and all. I knows yer a preacher from the
way yer did. Yer buys the wine like a gent, though--like a real, high
roller gent; anybody would 'a took yer fer a gent."

"Excuse me," said the preacher, "that wound on your forehead--the
blood seems to be dripping on those engravings--allow me--"

"Keep your hankcher, reverend," said the being, as he raised a ragged
coat tail and wiped the drops from his brow. "I won't spile yer
pictures. I'll git off en yer carpet, and let some fresh air in in a
minute. One time I could 'a told yer all about them pictures--dat's
Una and de lion--dat one's the Venus of Milo--de other one's the disc
thrower--you wouldn't believe, reverend, that I knowed de names, would
you? One time I set in cheers like dat--I allus liked dat Spanish
leather upholstering, but your wainscotin' ain't right. De carvin's
allegorical and it don't suit de modern panels--'scuse me, reverend,
dat ain't what I come to say. After you took in de Tenderloin, I got
to tinkin' bout somethin' you said one night after I went wid you to
de tough dance at Gilligan's. Dey was a cove dere dat twigged you as a
parson and was about to biff you one on de ear, but he see'd my gun
showin' down in my pocket, and den he see'd my eye, and changed his
mind--but dat's all right. You says to yerself dat night, but I heard
yer: 'De bruised reed he shall not quench, and de smokin' flax he will
not put out,' or somethin' like dat, and I got ter studyin' over what
a low down bum I've been, and I says, 'I'm goin' to de big bug church,
and hear de bloke preach.'

"De boys an' de tinhorns gimme de laugh and called me 'Pious Jake,'
but today I went to der big church where you preaches, reverend. I
says to myself dat I showed you round de Tenderloin, and stood by you
when de rounders guyed you, and never let de coves work de flimflam on
yer, and when I heard tell of the big sermons yer was preachin' and de
hot shot yer was shootin' into de tough gang, I was real proud, and I
felt like I kinder had a share in de business fer havin' gone de
rounds with yer. I says I'll hear dat cove preach, and maybe de
bruised reed'll git a chance to straighten up--'scuse me, reverend,
don't git skeared, I ain't goin' to fall and spile yer carpet. I'm a
little groggy. That cut on my head is bled a heap, but I ain't drunk."

"Perhaps you would like--possibly, if you would sit--just for a
moment--"

"Thanks, reverend, I won't sit down. I've jest about finished shootin'
in my dye stuff. I goes to dat church and I goes in. I hears music
playin', and I suppose them was angels singin' up in de peanut
gallery, an' I smelt--such a smell ov violets and stuff like de hay
when we used to cut it in de meaders when I wuz a kid. Dey wuz fine
people in welvets and folde-rols, and way over at de oder end was you,
reverend, standin' in de gran' stan', lookin' carm and fur away like,
jest as yer did at Gilligan's ball when de duck tried to guy yer, and
I went in fur to hear yer preach."

    * * * * *

A flattering sentence from the report of his sermon in the morning
paper came to the preacher's mind:

"His wonderful, magnetic influence is as powerful to move the hearts
of his roughest, most unlettered hearer, as it is to touch a
responsive chord in the cultured brain of the man of refinement and
taste."

"And my sermon," said the preacher, laying his delicate finger tips
one against the other, and allowing the adulation even of this being
to run with a slight exhilaration through his veins. "Did it awaken in
you any remorse for the life of sin you have led, or bring any light
of Divine pity and pardon to your soul, as He promises even unto the
most degraded and wicked of creation?"

"Yer sermon, reverend?" asked the being, carrying a trembling hand to
the disfiguring wounds upon his face. "Do you see them cuts and them
bruises? Do you know where I got 'em? I never heard yer sermon. I got
dese cuts on de rocks outside when de cop and yer usher fired me out
de church. De bruised reed He will not quench, an' de smokin' flax He
will not 'stinguish. Has you anything to say, reverend?"

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, December 1, 1895.)



Paderewski's Hair

The Post Man had the pleasure of meeting Colonel Warburton Pollock
yesterday in the rotunda of the New Hutchins.

Colonel Pollock is one of the most widely known men in this country,
and has probably a more extended acquaintance with distinguished men
of the times than any other living man. He is a wit, a raconteur of
rare gifts, a born diplomat, and a man of worldwide travel and
experience. Nothing pleases him so well as to relate his extremely
interesting reminiscences of men and events to some congenial circle
of listeners. His recollections of his associations with famous men
and women would fill volumes.

Colonel Pollock has a suite of rooms permanently engaged in a
Washington City hotel, where he passes, however, only a small portion
of his time. He always spends his summers in Europe, principally in
Naples and Florence, but he rarely stays in one place more than a few
weeks or months.

Colonel Pollock is now on his way to South America to look after his
interests in some valuable mahogany forests there.

The colonel chatted freely and most interestingly about his
experiences, and told to an admiring and attentive group of listeners
some excellent stories about well known people.

"Did I ever tell you?" he asked, as he puffed at his long black
Principe, "about an adventure I had in Africa a few years ago? No?
Well, I see Paderewski is coming to Houston soon, and the story may
not be inapropos. You have all heard Paderewski's wonderful hair
spoken of, of course. Well, very few people know how he came by it.
This is how it was. A few years ago, some of us made up a party to go
lion hunting in Africa. There was Nat Goodwin, Paderewski, John L.
Sullivan, Joe Pulitzer, and myself. That was before any of us had
acquired fame, but we were all ambitious, and everyone of us needed
the rest and recreation we were taking. We were a congenial, jolly
crowd, and had a rattling good time on the trip. When we landed we
hired guides, and stocked up with provisions and ammunition for a
month's trip into the Zambesi country.

"We were all anxious to kill a lion, and we penetrated into quite a
wild and unexplored region.

"We had great times at night over our camp fire, chatting and chaffing
one another, and thoroughly enjoying ourselves.

"Paderewski was the only member of our party who had been making
money. It was just about the time there was such a furor about his
playing, and he had plied up quite a neat sum from his piano recitals.

"One day Goodwin, Sullivan, Paderewski and I were loafing around camp
just before dinner. We had been out hunting all the morning without
success. Pulitzer had not yet shown up. Goodwin and Sullivan got into
a dispute about the proper way to dodge and counter a certain upper
cut made famous by Heenan. You know Nat Goodwin is quite an athlete
himself, and handles his hands like a professional. Paderewski was
always a quiet sort of fellow, but amiable and well liked by everyone.
He was sitting on the stump of a banyan tree gazing into the distance
with a dreamy look in his magnetic eyes. I was loading some
cartridges, and not paying much attention until I heard Sullivan and
Goodwin raise their voices in quite an angry dispute.

"'If I had a pair of gloves, I'd soon prove I am right,' said Nat.

"'I wish you had,' said John. 'In a minute you wouldn't know
anything.'

"'You couldn't stand up two minutes before a man who knew the first
principles of boxing,' said Goodwin. 'Your weight and your rush are
the only points in your favor.'

"'If we just had some gloves!' said John, grinding his teeth.

    * * * * *

"They both turned and looked at Paderewski as if by common consent.

"Paderewski at that time had coal black hair, as smooth and straight
as an Indian's, that hung down his back in a thick mass.

"Sullivan and Goodwin sprang upon him at the same time. I don't know
which of them did it, but there was the flash of a knife, and in two
seconds Paderewski was scalped as neatly as a Comanche Indian could
have done it.

"They divided the mass of hair in two parts, each stuffed his portion
into two leather cartridge pouches, wound the straps around his
wrists, and they went at each other in regular prize ring style with
their extemporized boxing gloves.

"Paderewski gave a yell of pain and dismay, and clasped his hands to
his bald head in horror.

"'I am ruined,' he said. 'My professional career is at an end. What
shall I do?'

"I tried to separate John and Nat, but I got a backhander from one of
those Paderewski boxing gloves that stretched me out into a big
cactus.

    * * * * *

"Just then Joe Pulitzer came into camp, dragging a big lion by the
tail he had just shot in a canebrake on the river.

"'Vat's dis?' he asked, gazing through his spectacles at the two
boxers who were hitting at each other and dodging around and at
Paderewski, who was wailing and moaning at the loss of his scalp.

"'I wouldn't have taken $5,000 for that hair,' he groaned.

"'Vat vill you gif,' said Pulitzer, 'for another head of hair yoost as
good?'

"He went up close to Paderewski and they whispered together for a few
minutes. Then Joe got out a tape line and measured Paderewski's head.
Then he took a knife and cut out a piece the exact size from the back
of the lion's head and fitted it on Paderewski's. He pressed it down
close, and bound it with light bandages.

"It seems almost incredible, but in three days the skin had grown
fast, the pain was gone, and Paderewski had the loveliest head of
thick, tawny, flowing hair you ever laid your eyes on.

"I saw Paderewski give Pulitzer a check that evening behind the tent,
and you can bet it was a stiff one. I don't know the exact figure, but
Joe bought out the _World_ as soon as we got back to New York and has
since done well.

"It simply made Paderewski's fortune. That head of hair he wears will
make him a millionaire yet. I never hear him bang down hard on the
bass keys of a piano, but I think of a lion roaring in a South African
forest, and I'll bet he does, too."

    * * * * *

"I like stage people," continued Colonel Pollock. "They are, as a
rule, the jolliest companions in the world and the most entertaining.
Hardly a year passes that I do not make up a congenial party for a
pleasure trip of some kind, and I always have two or three actors in
the crowd. Now, a year or two ago, some of us got together and took a
three months' voyage to see the sights. There were DeWolf Hopper, Dr.
Parkhurst, Buffalo Bill, Eugene Field, Steve Brodie, Senator Sherman,
General Coxey, and Hermann, the great magician, among the party.

"We were guests of the Prince of Wales, and went in his steam yacht,
the _Albion_. None of us had been to Australia, and the prince wanted
to show us around that country. We had a lovely trip. We were all
congenial souls, and our time on shipboard was one long banquet and
frolic during the whole journey.

"We landed at Melbourne and were met by the governor of Victoria and
only a few dignitaries of the place, as the prince had sent word that
he wished to pass his visit there strictly incog. In a day or two our
entertainers took us on a little tour through New South Wales to show
us the country, and give us some idea of the great mining and sheep
raising industries of the country. We went through Wagga Wagga, Jumbo
Junction, and Narraudera, and from there went on horseback through the
great pasture country near Cudduldury.

"When we reached a little town named Cobar in the center of the sheep
raising district, some loyal Englishmen living there recognized the
prince, and in an hour the whole town was at our heels, following us
about, huzzaring and singing 'God save the Queen.'

"'It's annoying, Pollock,' says the prince to me, 'but it can't be
helped now.'

"Our party rode out into the country to have a look at the sheep
ranches, and at least two hundred citizens followed us on foot,
staring at us in the deepest admiration and wonder.

"It seemed that it had been a mighty bad year on the sheep men, and
they were feeling gloomy and disheartened over the prospects. The
great trouble in Australia is this: The whole continent is overrun
with a prolific breed of rabbits that feed upon the grass and shrubs,
sometimes completely destroying all vegetation within large areas. The
government has a standing offer of something like 50,000 pounds for a
plan by which these rabbits can be destroyed, but nothing has ever
been discovered that will do the work.

"During years when these rabbits are unusually destructive, the sheep
men suffer great losses by not having sufficient range for their
sheep. At the time of our visit the rabbits had almost ruined the
country. A few herds of sheep were trying to subsist by nibbling the
higher branches that the rabbits could not reach, but many of the
flocks had to be driven far into the interior. The people were feeling
very sore and blue, and it made them angry to even hear anybody
mention a rabbit.

"About noon we stopped for lunch near the outskirts of a little
village, and the prince's servants spread a fine cold dinner of potted
game, pate de foie gras, and cold fowls. The prince had ordered a
large lot of wines to be sent along, and we had a merry repast.

"The villagers and sheep raisers loafed around by the hundred,
watching us; and a hungry-looking, starved-out lot they were.

    * * * * *

"Now, there isn't a more vivacious, genial and convivial man in the
world than Hermann, the great prestidigitateur. He was the life of the
party, and as soon as the prince's wine began to mellow him up, he
began to show off his tricks. He threw things in the air that
disappeared from sight, changed water into liquids of all colors,
cooked an omelet in a hat; and pretty soon we were surrounded by a
gaping, awestruck lot of bushmen, both natives and English born.

"Hermann was pleased with the open-mouthed attention he was creating,
so he walked out into an open space where he could face them all, and
began drawing rabbits out of his sleeves, his coat collar, his pockets
by the half dozen. He threw them down, and as fast as they could
scamper away the great magician kept on pulling out more rabbits to
the view of the astonished natives.

"Suddenly, with a loud yell, the sheep raisers seized clubs and stones
and drawing their long sheath knives, rushed upon our party.

"The prince seized my arm.

"'Run for it, Pollock,' he cried, 'this rabbit business has set them
wild. They'll kill us all if we don't cut our sticks.'"

    * * * * *

"I believe," said Colonel Pollock, "that that was the closest shave I
ever had. I struck out as hard as I could run, with about forty
natives after me, some of them throwing spears and boomerangs at me
every jump. When I was going over a little hill I turned my head and
looked back just in time to see Steve Brodie jump off a bridge into
the Murrumbidgee river at least 200 feet high. All our party escaped,
and came straggling back within two or three days, but they had some
tough experiences. Senator Sherman was out two nights in the bush and
was severely frostbitten.

"I understand DeWolf Hopper is going to dramatize the incident, and
will produce it next season, appearing as a kangaroo.

"Coxey was caught on the edge of a little stream which he refused to
enter, and the natives dragged him before an English justice of the
peace who released him the next day. The prince took the whole thing
as a good joke. He is an all round good fellow and no mistake.

"Sometime," said Colonel Pollock, as he rose to receipt for a
telegram, "I will tell you about an adventure I had among the
Catacombs of Rome, along with Ralph Waldo Emerson, Barney Gibbs and
the Shah of Persia." Colonel Pollock leaves on the night train for San
Antonio on his way to the City of Mexico.

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, January 26, 1896.)



A Mystery of Many Centuries

Up to a few years ago man regarded the means of locomotion possessed
by the fair sex as a sacred areanum into which it were desecration to
inquire.

The bicycle costume has developed the fact that there are two--well,
that there are two. Whereas man bowed down and worshipped what he
could not understand nor see, when the veil of mystery was rent, his
reverence departed. For generations woman has been supposed in moving
from one place to another to simply get there. Whether borne like
Venus in an invisible car drawn by two milk white doves, or wafted
imperceptibly by the force of her own sweet will, admiring man did not
pause to consider. He only knew that there was a soft rustle of unseen
drapery, an entrancing frou-frou of something agitated but unknown and
the lovely beings would be standing on another spot. Whereat he
wondered, adoring, but uninquisitive. At times beneath the lace-hemmed
snowy skirts might be seen the toe of a tiny slipper, and perhaps the
gleam of a silver buckle upon the arch of an instep, but thence
imagination retired, baffled, but enthralled. In olden times the
sweetest singers among the poets sang to their lutes of those
Lilliputian members, and romance struck a lofty note when it wove the
deathless legend of Cinderella and the slipper of glass. Courtiers
have held aloft the silken slipper of the adored one filled with
champagne and drank her health. Where is the bicyclist hero who would
undertake the task of draining to the good health of his lady love her
bicycle gaiter filled with beer?

The mysterious and lovelorn damosel no longer chucks roses at us from
her latticed window and sighs to us from afar. She has descended,
borrowed our clothes, and is our good friend and demands equal rights.
We no longer express our admiration by midnight serenades and sonnets.
We slap her on the back and feel we have gained a good comrade. But we
feel like inserting the following want ad in every paper in the land:

    Lost--A maiden dressed in long skirts: blushes sometimes,
    and wears a placard round her neck, which says, "hands
    off." A liberal reward will be paid for her return.

The other, day the Post Man saw a nice, clean-minded old gentleman,
who is of the old school of cavaliers, and who is loath to see woman
come down from the pedestal on which he has always viewed her.=

He was watching a lady bicycle rider go by. The Post Man asked him
what he thought.

"I never see a lady on a bicycle," said he, "but I am reminded of God,
for they certainly move in a mysterious way their wonders to perform."

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, May 10, 1896.)



A Strange Case

A _Post_ reporter met a young Houston physician the other afternoon,
with whom he is well acquainted, and suggested that they go into a
neighboring cafe and partake of a cooling lemonade. The physician
agreed, and they were soon seated at a little table in a quiet corner,
under an electric fan. After the physician had paid for the lemonade,
the reporter turned the conversation upon his practice, and asked if
he did not meet with some strange cases in his experience.

"Yes, indeed," said the doctor, "many that professional etiquette will
not allow me to mention, and others that involve no especial secrecy,
but are quite as curious in their way. I had one case only a few weeks
ago that I considered very unusual, and without giving names, I think
I can relate it to you."

"By all means do so," said the reporter, "and while you are telling
it, let us have another lemonade." The young physician looked serious
at this proposition, but after searching in his pocket and finding
another quarter he assented.

"About a week ago," he began, "I was sitting in my office, hoping for
a patient to come in, when I heard footsteps, and looking up, saw a
beautiful young lady enter the room. She advanced at the most curious
gait I ever beheld in one so charming. She staggered from side to side
and lurched one way and another, succeeding only by a supreme effort
in reaching the chair I placed for her. Her face was very lovely, but
showed signs of sadness and melancholy.

"'Doctor,' she said, in a very sweet, but sorrowful voice, 'I want to
consult you about my condition, and as it is a most unusual affection,
I will have to trouble you to listen to a no doubt tedious discourse
upon my family history.'

"'Madam,' said I, 'my time is yours. Anything you have to say that
will throw light upon your trouble will, of course, benefit me in my
diagnosis.'

"She thanked me with a smile that for a moment erased the sad lines
from her face.

"'My father,' she said, 'was one of the Adamses of Eastern Texas. You
have doubtless heard of the family.'

"'Perhaps so,' I replied, 'but there are so many families by the name
of Adams that--'

"'It is of no consequence,' she continued with a little wave of her
hand. 'Fifty years ago a violent feud broke out between my
grandfather's family and another family of old Texas settlers named
Redmond. The bloodshed and inhumanities exchanged between the people
of each side would fill volumes. The horrors of the old Kentucky and
West Virginia feuds were repeated by them. An Adams would shoot a
Redmond from behind a fence, at his table while eating, in a church,
or anywhere; and a Redmond would murder an Adams in like manner. The
most violent hatred imaginable existed between them. They poisoned
each other's wells, they killed each other's stock, and if an Adams
met a Redmond, only one would leave the spot. The children of each
family were taught to hate the others from the time they could speak,
and so the legacy of antipathy was handed down from father to son and
from mother to daughter. For thirty years this battle raged between
them, and one by one the death-dealing rifle and revolver thinned the
families until one day just twenty years ago there remained but a
single representative of each family, Lemuel Adams and Louisa Redmond.
They were both young and handsome, and at their first meeting forgot
the ancient feud of their families and loved each other. They married
at once, and thus ended the great Adams-Redmond feud. But, alas, sir,
the inherited discord and hatred of so many years' standing was
destined to rebound upon an innocent victim.'

"'I was the child of that marriage, and the Adams and Redmond blood
would not mingle. As a babe I was like any other, and was even
considered unusually prepossessing.'

"'I can well believe that, madam,' I interrupted.

"The lady colored slightly and went on: 'As I grew older a strange
warring and many adverse impulses began to sway me. Every thought or
movement I made was met by a contradictory one. It was the result of
hereditary antagonism. Half of me was Adams and the other half
Redmond. If I attempted to look at an object, one of my eyes would
gaze in another direction. If I tried to salt a potato while eating,
the other hand would involuntarily reach out and sprinkle it with
sugar.

"'Hundreds of times while playing the piano, while one hand would
strike the notes of a lovely Beethoven sonata, I could not keep the
other from pounding out "Over the Garden Wall," or "The Skidmore
Guards." The Adams and the Redmond blood would not flow in harmony. If
I went into an ice cream saloon, I would order a vanilla cream in
spite of myself, when my very soul was clamoring for lemon. Many a
time I would strive with every nerve to disrobe for the night, and the
opposing influence would be so strong that I have instead put on my
finest and most elaborate clothing and retired with my shoes on. Have
you ever met with a similar case, doctor?'

"'Never,' I said. 'It is indeed remarkable. And you have never
succeeded in overcoming the adverse tendency?'

"Oh, yes. By constant efforts and daily exercise I have succeeded so
far that it troubles me now in one respect only. With one exception I
am now entirely released from its influence. It is my locomotion that
is affected. My l-lower limbs refuse to coincide in their movements.
If I try to walk in a certain direction, one--one of them will take
the step I desire, and the other tries to go by an entirely different
route. It seems that one l--one of them is Adams, and the other
Redmond. Absolutely the only time when they agree is when I ride a
bicycle, and as one goes up when the other is going down, their
opposite movements of course facilitate my progress; but when
endeavoring to walk I find them utterly unmanageable. You observed my
entrance into this room. Is there anything you can do for me, doctor?'

"'Your case is indeed a strange one,' I said. 'I will consider the
situation, and if you will call tomorrow at 10 o'clock I will
prescribe for you.'

"She rose from her chair, and I assisted her down the stairs to her
carriage, which waited below. Such a sprawling, ungainly, mixed up
walk I never saw before.

"I meditated over her case for a long time that night and consulted
all the authorities on locomotor ataxia, and diseases of the muscles,
that I could find. I found nothing covering her case, and about
midnight I wandered out along the streets for a breath of cool air. I
passed a store kept by an old German whom I knew, and dropped in to
speak a word with him. I had noticed some time before two tame deer he
kept running about in a paddock in his yard. I asked him about them.
He told me that they had been fighting, and had not been able to
agree, so he had separated them, placing each one in a separate yard.
Of a sudden an idea came to me.

"The next day at ten the young lady came to my office. I had a
prescription ready for her. I gave it to her, she read it, flushed and
was inclined to be angry.

"'Try it, madam,' I said.

"She agreed to do so, and only yesterday I saw her on the street,
walking as gracefully and easily as any lady in the city."

"What was your prescription?" asked the reporter.

"It was simply to wear a pair of bloomers," said the young physician.
"You see by separating the opposing factions harmony was restored. The
Adams and the Redmond divisions no longer clashed, and the cure of the
patient was complete. Let me see," continued the physician, "it is
nearly half past seven, and I have an engagement to call upon her at
eight. In confidence, I may say that she has consented to change her
name to mine at an early date. I would not have you repeat what I have
told you, of course."

"To be sure, I will not," said the reporter. "But won't you take
another lemo--"

"No, no, thank you," said the doctor, rising hurriedly, "I must go.
Good evening. I will see you again in a few days."

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, May 3, 1896.)



Simmon's Saturday Night

How a Guileless Cattle Man Saw the Sights in Houston

One fine Saturday afternoon a young man got off the 9:10 p.m. Katy
train at the Houston depot, and looked about him in rather a
bewildered way. He was deliriously pastoral in his appearance, and
presented an aspect almost as rural as that of the young countryman
upon the stage as depicted by our leading comedians. He wore a very
long black coat of the cut that has perpetuated the name of the late
Prince Albert, such as is seen on Sundays at country churches, a pair
of pantaloons too short for his somewhat lengthy limbs, and a
wondrously tied scarf of deep crimson spotted with green. His face was
smoothly shaven, and wore a look of deep wonder, if not apprehension,
and his blue eyes were stretched to their widest as he viewed the
sights about him. In his hand he carried a long carpet bag of the old
style, made of some shiny substance resembling black oil cloth.

This young gentleman climbed nervously upon an electric car that was
pointed out to him as going into the center of the city, and held his
carpet bag upon his knees, clasping it with both hands, as if he
distrusted the other people upon the car.

As the car started again with a loud hum and scattering of sparks, he
grasped the arm of the seat in such a startled way that the conductor
could not repress a smile.

When the young man was approached for his fare, he opened the carpet
bag, pulling out a lot of socks and handkerchiefs, and after searching
for some time drew forth an old-fashioned beaded purse from which he
drew a nickel and handed it to the conductor.

When the car arrived at Main Street the young man requested that it be
stopped, and climbed off. He wandered up the side walk, stopping to
look with awe and admiration in the jewelers' windows, and his long
boot heels and awkward, mincing gait caused much amusement to
passersby.

Then it was that a well-dressed gentleman wearing a handsome light
Melton overcoat happened to pass, and his beautiful Malacca
gold-headed cane accidentally touched the elbow of the verdant-looking
young man.

"I beg a thousand pardons," said the well-dressed gentleman.

"It's all right, pardner," said the young man with a friendly smile.
"You ain't done no damage. You can't faze a Texas cow man with no
plaything like that. Don't mention it."

The well-dressed man bowed, and went leisurely on his way. The young
man stumbled on up Main Street to a corner, then turned in an aimless
way to the right and walked another block. There he looked up and saw
the illuminated clock in the market house tower, and drawing from his
vest pocket an immense silver watch fully as large as a saucer, he
wound it up with a key and set its hands with the clock in the tower.
While he was doing this a well-dressed gentleman carrying a
gold-headed Malacca cane slipped past and walked softly down the shady
side of the street, stopped in a deep shadow and seemed to be waiting
for someone.

About fifteen minutes later the young man entered a restaurant on
Congress Street and took his seat timidly at a table. He drew another
chair close to his side and deposited carefully therein his carpet
bag. Five minutes later a well-dressed man with a gold-headed Malacca
cane entered in a great hurry and after hanging up his silk hat,
seated himself, almost out of breath, at the same table. Then, looking
up, he recognized the young man whom he had seen gazing in the
jeweler's window, and smiling pleasantly remarked:

"Ah, we meet again, sir. I have just had a most exhausting race to
catch a train. You see, I am the paymaster of the Southern Pacific
Railway Company, and am on my way to pay off the hands down the road.
I missed my train by about three minutes. It's very awkward, too, as I
have nearly two thousand dollars on my person, and I am entirely
unacquainted in Houston."

"Dod gast it, colonel," said the young man, "I'm in the same fix. I'm
just getting back from Kansas City, where I sold a drove of
two-year-olds, and I haven't had time to do anything with the money.
You beat me on the amount, though; I ain't got but $900."

The well-dressed gentleman took a large roll of bills from his pocket,
skinned off one with which to pay for his supper, and returned the
rest carefully to the inside pocket of his coat.

"We seem to be about in the same situation, indeed," he said. "I very
much dislike to carry so much money on my person all night. Suppose we
form a mutual protection society, and in the meantime walk about and
see what sights there are to be seen in town."

At first the young man appeared suddenly suspicious at this
proposition, and became coldly reserved, but gradually thawed under
the frank and unassuming politeness of the well-dressed man, and when
that gentleman insisted upon paying for both suppers, his doubts
seemed to vanish, and he became not only confidential, but actually
loquacious. He informed the well-dressed man that his name was
Simmons, that he owned a nice little ranch in Encinal County, and that
this was his first trip out of Texas. The well-dressed man said his
name was Clancy, called "Captain" by his friends, that he lived in
Dallas, and was a member of the Young Men's Christian Association at
that place. He handed Mr. Simmons a card on which was printed "Captain
Richard Saxon Clancy," and below was scribbled somewhat hastily in
pencil, "With M. K. & T. Ry. Co."

    * * * * *

"Now," said Mr. Simmons, when they had finished supper, "I'm sorter
shy about proposin' it, you bein' a stranger, but I'm in for havin' a
glass of beer. If you don't like the scheme, why, excuse me, and don't
think hard of me for suggestin' it."

Captain Chancy smiled indulgently. "Have a care," he said, in a
sprightly bantering tone. "Remember, you and I must take care of
ourselves tonight. I am responsible to the railroad company for the
funds I have, and besides, I rarely ever touch beer--well, I guess one
glass won't hurt me."

Mr. Simmons opened the carpet bag and after some search found the bead
purse, from which he drew a dime, and suggested the immediate
investment of it. Captain Clancy remembered to have heard a friend say
that there was a quiet saloon on--let's see, what street was it?

After some hesitation and search they came upon a place with swinging
doors where a light was hanging outside, and the captain suggested
that they could probably get a glass of beer within. They entered and
found themselves before a gorgeous bar, ablaze with lights and
mirrors, at which lounged five or six men of a rather rough and
night-owlish appearance.

Mr. Simmons called for two glasses of beer, and when they had drunk it
he laid his dime upon the counter.

"Wot's eatin' you?" said the bartender. "They is two for. Cough up
some more right away once."

"See here," said Mr. Simmons, "beer is 5 cents a glass everywheres.
Don't you take me for no country jay."

Captain Clancy whispered that they had better pay what was asked than
get into a difficulty. "It seems a rough sort of place," he said, "and
you must remember it won't do to endanger ourselves while we have our
money about us. Let me pay the 15 cents additional."

"No, you don't," said Mr. Simmons. "I guess when I treat I foot the
whole bill." He went down into the carpet bag again and brought forth
three more nickels.

Just then an orchestra near at hand struck up in a lively air, and Mr.
Simmons turned to look whence it came.

The bartender winked at Captain Clancy and said softly:

"Struck it rich, eh, Jimmy, old boy?"

"Think it will pay," said the captain, as softly, closing his left eye
at the bartender.

"Say," said Mr. Simmons, "whatever have you got in there?" pointing in
the direction of the music.

"Finest high-class musical and dramatic entertainment in the South,"
said the bartender. "Refined and elevatin' specialties by
distinguished artists. Walk in, gents."

"It's a play show, by gum," said Mr. Simmons. "Shall we go in?"

"I don't like the looks of the place much," said Captain Clancy, "but
let's have a look at it, anyhow, to pass away the time; let's see,
it's just half past ten; we can look on a while and then go up to the
hotel and get to bed by eleven-thirty. Let me pay for tickets."

"All right," said Mr. Simmons, "I paid for the beer."

The bartender pointed out the way through a little hallway, where they
entered another door and found a very glib gentleman who persuaded
them to buy tickets that admitted them upstairs. They ascended and
found themselves in the family circle of a little theater. There were
about twenty or thirty men and boys scattered about among the seats,
and the performance seemed quite well under way. On the stage a very
exaggerated Irishman was chasing a very exaggerated negro with an ax,
while a soubrettish young lady dressed in a ruffle and blue tights
stood upon a barrel and screamed something in a high, cracked voice.

    * * * * *

"I shouldn't like it if there should happen to be anyone downstairs
that knows me," said the captain. "Suppose we take one of these
boxes." They went into a little box, screened from view by soiled
cheap lace curtains, containing four or five chairs and a little table
with little rings all over it made by the bottoms of wet glasses.

Mr. Simmons was delighted with the performance. He laughed
unrestrainedly at the jokes of the comedian, and leaned half out of
the box to applaud when the DeVere sisters did their song and dance
and split specialty. Captain Clancy leaned back in his chair and
hardly looked at the stage, but on his face was an expression of large
content, and a tranquil smile. Mr. Simmons kept the carpet bag in both
hands all this time. Presently, while he was listening with apparent
rapture to a topical song by Mlle. Fanchon, the Parisian nightingale,
he felt a hand laid on his shoulder. He turned about and beheld a
vision that seemed to take away his breath. Two radiant beings in
white, with blue ribbons, and showing quite a stretch of black ribbed
stockings were in the box. Mr. Simmons hugged his carpet bag to his
breast and started up in embarrassed alarm.

"Don't shy, old man," said one of them. "Sit down and buy some beer."

Mr. Simmons seemed so full of blushes and perturbation for a while
that he scarcely knew what he was doing, but Captain Clancy seemed so
cool and easy, and began to chat so companionably with the ladies that
he presently took courage, and the next quarter of an hour found the
four seated opposite one another at the little table, and a colored
waiter was kept busy bringing bottles of beer from the bar and
carrying away empty glasses. Mr. Simmons grew absolutely hilarious. He
told funny stories about ranch life, and spoke quite boastingly about
the gay times he had had in Kansas City during the three days he was
there.

"Oh, you're a bold, bad man," said one of the young ladies, called
Violet. "If Lillie and Jim--I mean your friend, wasn't in here I'd be
real 'fraid of you."

"Go way, now," said Mr. Simmons; "you know I ain't nothin' of that
sort. Bring some more beer there, you colored feller!"

The party certainly were enjoying themselves. Presently Violet leaned
over the railing and called Mr. Simmons' attention to a lady that was
singing on the stage. Mr. Simmons turned his back, and as he did so
Captain Clancy quickly drew from his pocket a small vial and poured
the contents into the glass of beer on Mr. Simmons' side of the waiter
that had just been brought in.

"Here, you all," called the lady addressed as Lillie, "the beer's
getting cold." Mr. Simmons and Violet turned back to the table, and
Mr. Simmons accidentally stumbled over his carpet bag, which he had
actually set down for a moment upon the floor. He fell sprawling
across the table, striking the edge of the waiter with his hand and
nearly turning Captain Clancy over in his chair, but spilling none of
the beer.

"Excuse me," he said, turning very red. "Got my foot caught. I'm as
awkward as a cowboy at a dance. Well, here's luck."

Everybody drank the beer, and Lillie began to hum a little song. In
about a minute Violet reeled around in her chair and tumbled off on
the floor in a confused heap of white muslin, blondined hair and black
stockings.

Captain Clancy seemed much vexed. He shot a steel blue flash from his
eyes at Lillie and said something very much like "d--n it" to himself.

"Great heavens!" cried Mr. Simmons, "this lady has fainted. Call a
doctor, or get some water or somethin' quick."

"Say," said Lillie, lighting a cigarette, "don't get woozy. She'll
sleep it off. You gents get out for a while. Say, J-Mister, tell the
bartender to send Sam up as you go out. Good night."

"We had better go," said the captain.

Mr. Simmons, with many protestations of sympathy and anxiety, was led
away by Captain Clancy downstairs, where he delivered the message, and
thence out into the cool night air.

He was feeling pretty strongly the effects of the beer he had drunk,
and leaned heavily upon the captain's arm. Captain Clancy assured him
that the lady would be all right in a little while, that she had
merely drunk a little too much beer, which had affected her rather
suddenly, and succeeded in restoring Mr. Simmons to his former
cheerful spirits.

"It is not yet half past eleven," said the captain. "How would you
like to go up into one of the gambling rooms just to look on a while?
It is a very interesting sight."

"Just the thing," said Mr. Simmons. "They are not new things to me at
all. Twice I have been in 'em in San Antone. Saw a feller win $18 one
night in this game you play with little buttons on little boards."

"Keno, I believe," said the captain. "Yes, that's it--keno."

    * * * * *

I shall not undertake to describe the locality of the apartments to
which our visitors next went. Gambling houses are almost unknown in
Houston, and as this is a true story, the attempt to give a definite
location to such an institution in a city of the well known morality
of Houston would meet with incredulity. Neither is it clear how they
managed to find such a place, both of them being strangers, but by
some accidental blunder, Captain Clancy led Mr. Simmons up a brightly
lighted and carpeted stair into a large apartment, where a goodly
crowd of men were gathered, trying their luck at the different games
usually found in a well appointed gambling house.

The stairway opened into the room nearly at the end farthest from the
street. Immediately in front of the two gentlemen when they entered
was a room in which were two or three round tables and chairs, at that
time unoccupied.

Captain Clancy and Mr. Simmons walked about the larger room for a
while, gazing upon the players as they won or lost in the vicissitudes
and fortunes of the games. The men in the room viewed Mr. Simmons with
ill-concealed hilarity. His carpet bag seemed to create a vast deal of
merriment, and every man in the room, while betraying much amusement,
still gazed upon him with longing and hungry eyes, as upon some choice
tit-bit upon which they fain would feast.

One fat man with a dyed mustache nudged Captain Clancy in the side and
said:

"Gad! Jimmy, can't you let me in on it?"

The captain frowned and the fat man moved away with a sigh. Mr.
Simmons was interested almost to excitement. Presently he said:

"Say, I don't know how it will strike you, cap'n, but I guess I must
have some sportin' blood in me. Now, I don't gamble, but I'm the
darnedest checker player in Southwest Texas. Let's go in that other
room, and I'll play you some checkers and the man what loses buys a
glass of beer for both of us."

"Now, Mr. Simmons," said the captain, raising a warning finger and
smiling. "Remember our mutual protection society. I don't like this
place at all. We had better be out of it. However, I used to be the
crack checker and croquet player in our Young Men's Christian
Association--just a game or two, now."

They played a game or two, and then they played half a dozen more. The
captain won every game. Mr. Simmons was much vexed. He grew very red
in the face as his reputation as a checker player began to vanish.

"Confound it," he said, "I'm out 70 cents. Gimmie a chance to get
even. I'd give it to you if I was ahead."

"Why, certainly," said the captain, "but checkers is rather tiresome.
Some other way suit you? Let's have in a deck of cards and play a few
hands until you get even."

"Any way," said Mr. Simmons. His hat was on the back of his head; his
light-blue eyes were blinking and somewhat unsteady. His red and green
spotted tie was almost under one ear. He sat with the black carpet bag
in his lap, and his checked trousers had drawn half way up to his
knees.

"What, oh, what," said the captain softly, to himself, "have I done to
deserve this manna descending to me in the wilderness; this good thing
dropping into my hands as if it were greased; this great big soft snap
coming my way without a ripple. It's too good to be true."

The captain struck a little bell and a waiter brought a deck of cards.

"Let's call it poker," said the captain. Mr. Simmons rose to his feet.

"That's a gambling game," he said severely. "I ain't no gambler."

"Neither am I, Mr. Simmons," said the captain with a sudden dignity
and a trifle of a frown. "A game of poker for insignificant stakes
between gentlemen is entirely allowable in the circles in which I have
moved, and any institution--"

"Oh, dang it all," said Mr. Simmons, "I didn't mean anything. I've
played some on the ranch with the boys of nights for grains of corn.
Deal 'em out."

    * * * * *

The old story of the hawk and the pigeon has been told so often that
the details are apt to weary. From a stake of 10 cents they rose to 50
cents and a dollar. Mr. Simmons won, of course. He had taken the bead
purse out of his bag and therefrom abstracted certain silver dollars,
and later on, $25 in bills. Once he held up a package from the carpet
bag tied with a string and winked at the captain.

"That's the nine hundred," he said.

The captain won a pot occasionally, but the bulk of the money was
going to Mr. Simmons, who was jubilant but sympathetic.

"You're out of luck," he said jollily, but thickly. He was
considerably under the influence of the beer he had drunk, to all
appearances. The captain looked worried and anxious.

"That's nearly all my expense money," he said moodily. "I say,
Simmons, take off the limit and give a feller a chance to get even."

"What's that?" asked Mr. Simmons. "You mean bet any amount we please?"

"Yes."

"Let 'er go," said Mr. Simmons. "Shay, zis beer (hic) make'm me
shorter shick."

Mr. Simmons seemed to play a very loose game, and his luck began to
desert him. He lost a large portion of his winnings on an ace full,
and had several fine hands beaten. In a little while his velvet was
gone and the next hand lost him all his little capital. He grew more
deeply flushed, and his round light eyes shone with an excited stare.
He once more opened the black carpet bag, took out his pocket knife
and put both hands inside. The captain heard him cut the string of the
package and out came the hands grasping a mass of fives, tens and
twenties. The carpet bag still kept its place in his lap.

"Bring 'sh s'm beer," said Mr. Simmons, loudly. "Jolly f'ler ze
captain. Play'm all night 'f wanter. 'M a little full, but bes'
checker 'n poker player 'n Encinal County. Deal 'em."

    * * * * *

Captain Richard Saxon Clancy, paymaster (?) of the M. K. & T. Railway
Company, drew himself together, his time had come. The manna was about
to descend. The pigeon was already fluttering in his talons. The
victim was in exactly the right stage of drunkenness; enough to be
reckless and not too observant, but not too much so to prevent his
playing the game.

The captain coughed rather loudly. One or two men strolled in from the
other room and watched the game silently. The captain coughed again. A
pale young man with gloomy eyes and an unhealthy-looking face lounged
around somewhat back of Mr. Simmons' chair, and listlessly looked on.
Every time a hand was dealt or a draw made, he would scratch his ear,
touch his nose, pull his mustache or play with a button on his vest.
It was strange to see how much the captain watched this young man, who
certainly had nothing to do with the game.

Still the captain won. When Mr. Simmons won a pot it was sure to be a
small one.

The captain thought the time ripe for his coup de grace. He struck the
bell, and the waiter came.

"Bring a fresh deck, Mike," he said, "these are getting worn." Mr.
Simmons was too confused to notice that the captain, a stranger in the
city, called the waiter familiarly by his given name.

The captain dealt the cards, and Mr. Simmons cut them in an awkward
and bungling way. Then the fatal hand was dealt. It was the captain's
favorite. Four kings and the seven of spades to his opponent, four
aces and the deuce of diamonds to himself. Any other cards would do as
well as the spade and the diamond, but the captain had a weakness for
those two cards.

He noticed the ill-concealed pleasure on the face of Mr. Simmons as he
gazed at his hand. Mr. Simmons stood pat; the captain drew one card.
The young man behind Mr. Simmons' chair had moved away. It was no
longer necessary for him to scratch his ear and touch his vest button.
He knew the captain's coup de grace as well as he himself.

Mr. Simmons clutched his cards tightly in his hand and tried in vain
to conceal his eagerness. The captain examined the new card he had
drawn with exaggerated anxiety, and heaved a sigh that intended to
convey to Mr. Simmons the information that he had made his hand good.

The betting began. Mr. Simmons threw in his money feverishly and
quickly; the captain saw each bet, and raised only after affected deep
deliberation. Mr. Simmons raised back gleefully, drunkenly and
confidently. When the pot contained about $200 the captain's brows
went together, and two faint lines traced themselves from his nostrils
to the corners of his mouth, and he made a raise of a hundred. Mr.
Simmons laid his hand down carefully on the table and went down in his
carpet bag again. This time he drew out two $500 bills and laid them
on top of the pot.

"I'm goin' busted on this hand," said Mr. Simmons. "'F I didn't zhe
boys 'n Encinal County 'd run me out for a coward. Whoop 'em up,
cap'n."

"Send Charlie over here," said Captain Clancy to one of the
bystanders. The fat man with the dyed mustache came over and whispered
with the captain. Then he went away and came back with a stack of gold
and bills and counted out the thousand dollars to call Mr. Simmons'
bet.

"I call," said the captain.

Then a queer thing happened.

Mr. Simmons rose lightly to his feet, spread his hand face upward upon
the table, and with the same arm movement swept the pile of money into
his capacious carpet bag.

With bulging eyes and a sulphurous oath the captain looked for the
four kings and the seven of spades he had dealth Mr. Simmons. What he
saw was a queen high straight heart flush.

The captain made a spring, and the pale gentlemen standing about each
took one cat-like step towards Mr. Simmons and then stopped. As the
money went into the carpet bag there came out a blue-barreled
six-shooter that now shone ominously in Mr. Simmons' hand, and they
looked into its barrel.

Mr. Simmons gave one lightning glance to his rear and then backed
towards the door.

"Don't make any mistake," he said. There was a blue gleam in his eyes
exactly the color of the shining metal of his weapon.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I invite you all when in New York to call at my
joint, at 2508 Bowery. Ask for Diamond Joe, and you'll see me. I'm
going into Mexico for two weeks to see after my mining plants and I'll
be at home any time after then. Upstairs, 2508 Bowery; don't forget
the number. I generally make my traveling expenses as I go. Good
night."

Mr. Simmons backed quickly out and disappeared.

Five minutes later Captain Richard Saxon Clancy, paymaster (?) for the
M. K. & T. Railway Company, and member (?) of the Dallas Young Men's
Christian Association, alias "Jimmy," stood at a corner bar and said:
"Whiskey, old man, and--say get a bigger glass than that, will you? I
need it."

(_Houston Daily Post_, Sunday morning, April 12, 1896.)



An Unknown Romance

The first pale star peeped down the gorge. Above, to illimitable
heights reached the Alps, snow-white above, shadowy around, and black
in the depths of the gorge.

A young and stalwart man, clad in the garb of a chamois hunter, passed
up the path. His face was bronzed with sun and wind, his eye was frank
and clear, his step agile and firm. He was singing fragments of a
Bavarian hunting song, and in his hand he held a white blossom of the
edelweiss he had plucked from the cliff. Suddenly he paused, and the
song broke, and dropped from his lips. A girl, costumed as the Swiss
peasants are, crossed the path along one that bisected his, carrying a
small stone pitcher full of water. Her hair was of the lightest gold
and hung far below her trim waist in a heavy braid. Her eyes shone
through the gathering twilight, and her lips, slightly parted, showed
a faint gleam of the whitest teeth.
